    STANDING COMMITTEE ON RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
                   PANCHAYATI RAJ

                            (2025-2026)




     31                EIGHTEENTH LOK SABHA




              MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
           (DEPARTMENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT)



 [Action taken on the recommendations contained in the Ninth Report
   (Eighteenth Lok Sabha) on “Impact of National Social Assistance
Programme (NSAP) on the Poor and Destitute in the Villages” (2024-25)
       of the Ministry of Rural Development (Department of Rural
                              Development)]




                      THIRTY-FIRST REPORT




                    LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT
                          NEW DELHI
   STANDING COMMITTEE ON RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
                  PANCHAYATI RAJ
                           (2025-2026)



                  (EIGHTEENTH LOK SABHA)




            MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
          (DEPARTMENT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT)


[Action taken on the recommendations contained in the Ninth Report
  (Eighteenth Lok Sabha) on ‘Impact of National Social Assistance
Programme (NSAP) on the Poor and Destitute in the Villages’ of the
 Ministry of Rural Development (Department of Rural Development)]



              Presented to Lok Sabha on 02.04.2026

                Laid in Rajya Sabha on 02.04.2026




                  LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT
                        NEW DELHI

                 April, 2026/Chaitra, 1948 (Saka)
CRD No. 222




Price: Rs.




© 2024 BY LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT

Published under Rule 382 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok
Sabha (Seventeenth Edition) and Printed by __________________.
                                    CONTENTS
                                                                                 Page No.

COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE (2025-2026)                                             ii
INTRODUCTION                                                                         iii

CHAPTER I     Report                                                                 1

CHAPTER II    Recommendations which have been accepted by the Government            12

CHAPTER III   Recommendations which the Committee do not desire to pursue           17
              in view of the Government’s replies

CHAPTER IV    Recommendations in respect of which replies of the Government         18
              have not been accepted by the Committee

CHAPTER V     Recommendations in respect of which final replies of the              24
              Government are still awaited

                                    ANNEXURE

I             Minutes of the Sixth Sitting of the Committee held on 12.12.2025      21

I             Analysis of Action taken by the Government on the                     25
              recommendations contained in the Ninth Report (18th Lok Sabha)
              of the Standing Committee on Rural Development and Panchayati
              Raj
COMPOSITION OF THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
                     PANCHAYATI RAJ (2025-26)
                    Shri Saptagiri Sankar Ulaka --       Chairperson

                               Lok Sabha Members
   2. Shri Bhumare Sandipanrao Asaram
   3. Shri Sudip Bandyopadhyay
   4. Shri Raju Bista
   5. Shri Vijay Kumar Dubey
   6. Dr. Sanjay Jaiswal
   7. Shri Bhajan Lal Jatav
   8. Dr. Mohammad Jawed
   9. Shri Jugal Kishore
   10. Dr. D. Ravi Kumar
   11. Shri Naba Charan Majhi
   12. Shri Imran Masood
   13. Shri Janardan Mishra
   14. Shri Kota Srinivasa Poojary
   15. Shri K. Radhakrishnan
   16. Shri Ramashankar Vidharthi Rajbhar
   17. Shri Omprakash Bhupalsinh alias Pavan Rajenimbalkar
   18. Shri Parshottambhai Rupala
   19. Shri Devendra Singh alias Bhole Singh
   20. Shri Ganesh Singh
   21. Shri Vivek Thakur

                                Rajya Sabha Members
   22. Smt. Geeta alias Chandraprabha
   23. Dr. M. Dhanapal
   24. Shri Samirul Islam
   25. Shri Iranna Kadadi
   26. Dr. Kavita Patidar
   27. Smt. Rajathi
   28. Shri Nagendra Ray
   29. Shri Sant Balbir Singh
   30. Smt. P.T. Usha
   31. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi
                                SECRETARIAT

   1.   Shri D.R. Shekhar             -        Additional Secretary
   2.   Shri V. K. Shailon            -        Director
   3.   Smt. Rashmi Roy               -        Deputy Secretary
   4.   Shri Sudhanshu Shekhar        -        Under Secretary




                                          ii
                                  INTRODUCTION

      I, the Chairperson of the Standing Committee on Rural Development &
Panchayati Raj (2025-2026) having been authorised by the Committee to present
the Report on their behalf, present the Thirty-First Report on the action taken by the
Government on the recommendations contained in the 9th Report of the Standing
Committee on Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (18thLok Sabha) on ‘Impact of
National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) on the Poor and Destitute in the
Villages’ (2024-25) of the Ministry of Rural Development (Department of Rural
Development).

2.    The Ninth Report was presented to the Lok Sabha on 03.04.2025 and was
laid on the Table of Rajya Sabha on 03.04.2025. Replies of the Government to all
the recommendations contained in the Report were received on 03.07.2025.

3.    The Report was considered and adopted by the Committee at their sitting held
on 01.04.2026.

4.    An analysis of the action taken by the Government on the recommendations
contained in the Ninth Report (18th Lok Sabha) of the Committee is given in
Appendix-II.




NEW DELHI                                                Saptagiri Sankar Ulaka
01 April, 2026                                                      Chairperson
11 Chaitra, 1948 (Saka)            Standing Committee on Rural Development and
                                                                 Panchayati Raj




                                          iii
                                     CHAPTER I

                                       REPORT
       This Report of the Standing Committee on Rural Development and
Panchayati Raj (2025-26) deals with the action taken by the Government on the
Observations/ Recommendations contained in their Ninth Report (Eighteenth Lok
Sabha) on ‘Impact of National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) on the Poor
and Destitute in the Villages’ of the Ministry of Rural Development (Department of
Rural Development) for the term 2024-25.

1.2    The Ninth Report was presented to the Lok Sabha on 03.04.2025 and was
laid on the Table of Rajya Sabha on 03.04.2025. The Report contained 10
Observations/ Recommendations.

1.3    Action Taken Notes in respect of all the 10 Observations/ Recommendations
contained in the Report have been received from the Government. These have been
examined and categorised as follows:

(i) Observations/ Recommendations which have been accepted by the Government:
       Serial Nos. 5, 7, 9, 10
                                                                       Total: 4
                                                                       Chapter-II


(ii) Observations/ Recommendations which the Committee do not desire to pursue in
view of replies of the Government:
       Serial No. NIL
                                                                        Total: NIL
                                                                       Chapter-III
(iii) Observations/ Recommendations in respect of which replies of the Government
have not been accepted by the Committee:
       Serial No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8
                                                                        Total: 06
                                                                       Chapter-IV
(iv) Observations/ Recommendations in respect of which final replies of the
Government are still awaited:
      Serial No. NIL
                                                                       Total: NIL
                                                                       Chapter-V


                                           1
1.4   The Committee desire that Final Action Taken Notes on the
Observations/ recommendations contained in Chapter I of this Report may be
furnished to the Committee within three months of the presentation of this
Report.
1.5  The Committee will now deal with action taken by the Government on
some of their Observations/ Recommendations that require reiteration/ merit
comments.
I.    Enhancement of Budget Allocation and Pension Amounts under NSAP
                         Recommendation (Serial No. 1)
1.6   With regard to the enhancement of Budget Allocation and Pension Amounts
      under NSAP, the Committee had recommended as under:
                    “The Committee note with concern that the budgetary allocation
            made for payment of pension under the NSAP have remained stagnant
            at approximately ₹9,500 crore per annum since 2015–16, with only a
            marginal increase to ₹9,652 crore in the Budget Estimates for 2025–
            26. This stagnation in allocation, despite inflation and rising beneficiary
            needs, has resulted in a real-term decline in assistance—wherein the
            value of the 2025–26 allocation, when adjusted for inflation, is
            estimated to be only ₹9,200 crore. As a percentage of the total Union
            Budget, the NSAP’s share has fallen sharply from 0.58% in 2014–15 to
            just 0.19% in 2025–26. While the Centre continues to cap its support at
            3.09 crore beneficiaries, state governments have taken on a
            disproportionate burden by covering nearly twice this number which is
            approximately about 5.86 crore additional beneficiaries. The
            Committee also note that the central contribution for various NSAP
            schemes has not been revised since the last more than 10 years and
            that the government does not have any proposal under consideration
            to revamp the NSAP with the result that the existing rates do not reflect
            actual demand and ground realities of the present time. The
            Committee, therefore, recommend that the Department of Rural
            Development should prepare and submit a revised proposal for
            Cabinet consideration and approval seeking a substantial
            enhancement in pension amounts and overall allocations under
            NSAP.”
1.7   The DoRD in their action taken reply have stated as follows:
                    “The existing rate of assistance, eligibility criteria, coverage etc
            under NSAP have been approved for the 15th Finance Commission
            cycle i.e. up to FY 2025-26. During 2022-23, 2023-24 and 2024-25, out
            of the allocation of Rs.9652 crore, expenditure of Rs.9652 crore,
            Rs.9491.11 and crore Rs.9652 crore respectively have been incurred
            under NSAP.

                  An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for
            assessing its overall impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/



                                          2
             recommendations including coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of
             assistance during its continuation in 16th Finance Commission cycle.”


                             Comments of the Committee


1.8    The Committee note with dissatisfaction that the Department of Rural
Development has not accepted the recommendation for enhancement of
pension amounts and budgetary allocation under NSAP and has merely stated
that the existing structure will continue till the end of the current Finance
Commission cycle and an evaluation study of the proposal for enhancement is
under way. The Committee view this as an inadequate step taken by the
Department, in light of rising inflation and the long stagnation of central
assistance. The Committee reiterate its earlier recommendation in wake of
existing central assistance remaining stagnant for more than a decade, not
reflecting the present cost of living and increasing vulnerability of the target
groups. The Committee, therefore, strongly urge DoRD to expedite the
ongoing evaluation and submit a concrete proposal to the Cabinet within a
time-bound manner for substantial enhancement of pension amounts and
overall allocations under NSAP which is a basic level of financial support.

II.    Institution of an Indexation Mechanism for Pension Revisions


                         Recommendation (Serial No. 2)
1.9   With regard to institution of an Indexation Mechanism for Pension Revisions,
the Committee had recommended as follows:
                    "The Committee are of the considered opinion that the absence
             of a mechanism to revise pensions in line with inflation and cost of
             living has contributed to the erosion of the real value of assistance
             under NSAP. Given the projected 18% increase in the elderly
             population over the coming decade and the recommendations of
             various expert committees and evaluation study including those of NITI
             Aayog, the Committee recommend that a principle-based mechanism
             should be created/ instituted to automatically index pensions to inflation
             and revise them on an annual or biennial basis."

1.10   The DoRD in their action taken reply have stated as under:
                    "An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for
             assessing its overall impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/



                                          3
             recommendations including coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of
             assistance during its continuation in 16th Finance Commission cycle."

                           Comments of the Committee


1.11   The Committee observe that the Department of Rural Development has
not agreed to the recommendation for instituting an automatic indexation
mechanism and has instead stated that the matter is under evaluation. The
Committee are of the considered view that absence of an indexation
mechanism continues to erode the real value of assistance provided under
NSAP. The Committee, therefore, reiterate their earlier recommendation and
urge the DoRD to evolve a principle-based indexation mechanism linked to
inflation or cost-of-living indicators and incorporate the same in the next
phase of the scheme without further delay.

III.   Ensuring Uniformity in Pension across States


                         Recommendation (Serial No. 3)
1.12 In the context of ensuring uniformity in Pension across States, the Committee
had recommended as below:
                     “The Committee note that several States supplement the central
             pension provided under the National Social Assistance Programme
             (NSAP) with additional top-up contributions, which vary significantly
             from as low as ₹50 to as high as ₹3,716 per month per beneficiary. The
             Committee appreciate such efforts made by State Governments which
             is a clear reflection of the States’ intent and commitment to strengthen
             social security of the deprived section of the society. However, at the
             same time, the Committee are concerned that this wide disparity in
             pension amounts across States undermines the principle of equity and
             results in similarly placed beneficiaries receiving vastly different levels
             of support solely based on their state of residence. The Committee are
             of the view that the absence of a uniform framework for state
             contributions risks distorting the core objectives of NSAP, which is
             intended to serve as a minimum national guarantee of social security.
             To address this, the Committee recommend that the Ministry prescribe
             a standard cost-sharing framework, in line with other centrally
             sponsored schemes—60:40 for most states and 90:10 for North
             Eastern and Himalayan states. Such a normative framework would
             preserve the essence of equity of the scheme, prevent excessive
             divergence across states, and ensure that NSAP fulfils its intended role
             as an assured guarantee of support for elderly persons, widows, and
             persons with disabilities, rather than becoming a fragmented or
             unevenly implemented welfare scheme. The Committee, therefore,


                                          4
             further recommend that the Ministry should establish clearly defined
             minimum and maximum permissible limits for top-up contributions,
             below and above which states should not be permitted to contribute.”

1.13   The following Action Taken Reply has been given by DoRD:
                    “As social security, invalid and old age pensions figure as items
             23 and 24 in the Concurrent List (7th Schedule) of the Constitution,
             both the Central Government and States/ UTs have the responsibility
             for working in tandem in rolling out a comprehensive social security
             framework for the country. Accordingly, as per NSAP guidelines, the
             State/ UTs are encouraged to provide top up amounts at least an
             equivalent amount to the assistance provided by the Central Govt. so
             that the beneficiaries could get a decent level of assistance.

                      Based on various recommendations and evaluation studies, a
             proposal for revamp of NSAP, which inter-alia included revision in
             eligibility criteria, rate of assistance and sharing arrangement with the
             States was considered during continuation of NSAP for the 15th
             Finance Commission cycle (2021-26). However, the Government has
             approved continuation of NSAP schemes in its present form. An
             evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for assessing its
             overall impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/
             recommendations including coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of
             assistance, Central/State sharing pattern etc. during its continuation in
             16th Finance Commission cycle.”

                          Comments of the Committee


1.14 The Committee note from the Action Taken Reply that social security
pensions fall under the Concurrent List and States/ UTs are encouraged to
provide top-ups over the central assistance. The Department of Rural
Development has informed that proposals regarding revision of eligibility
criteria, rate of assistance and Centre–State sharing arrangements were
considered during the continuation of NSAP for the 15th Finance Commission
cycle (2021–26); however, the scheme was continued in its existing form. The
Committee further note that an evaluation study has been initiated to examine
issues relating to coverage, eligibility criteria, rate of assistance and sharing
arrangements for the next Finance Commission cycle. The Committee remain
concerned that the absence of a structured framework governing State top-
ups has resulted in wide disparities in the total pension amounts received by
beneficiaries across different States. The Committee reiterate that NSAP is
intended to provide a minimum national social security guarantee and that


                                          5
large variations in pension levels may undermine the equity and uniformity of
the scheme. The Committee, therefore, once again recommend that the DoRD
on priority basis should take steps to utilise the findings of the ongoing
evaluation study to formulate and place before the Government a
comprehensive proposal for a more balanced framework of Central and State
contributions, along with indicative minimum pension norms, so as to ensure
greater equity and uniformity in the benefits provided under NSAP across the
country for further strengthening of the programme through measures such
as improving adequacy of assistance, ensuring timely and regular payments,
enhancing beneficiaries verification and monitoring systems etc.

IV.   Adoption of a Unified Eligibility Framework and Beneficiary Database


                         Recommendation (Serial No. 4)
1.15 In the context of adoption of a unified eligibility Framework and Beneficiary
Database, the Committee had recommended as below:
                     “The Committee note with concern that the current system of
             determining beneficiaries under the National Social Assistance
             Programme (NSAP) continues to rely on the outdated 2001 Below
             Poverty Line (BPL) list. This antiquated methodology fails to reflect
             present-day socio-economic realities and excludes a substantial
             number of genuinely eligible individuals. At the same time, the
             Committee observe that while the Centre supports 3.09 crore
             beneficiaries under NSAP, various state governments have recognised
             and extended support to an additional 5.86 crore individuals from their
             own resources. This parallel structure wherein the Centre and States
             implement effectively two separate beneficiary groups under the similar
             schemes—creates significant administrative inconsistencies and opens
             the door to both exclusion of deserving individuals and inclusion of
             ineligible beneficiaries. It also results in duplication of efforts,
             fragmented monitoring, and dilution of accountability. The Committee
             are of the considered view that a unified and transparent beneficiary
             identification system is essential to effectively implement the NSAP
             schemes in letter and spirit. The Committee, therefore, recommend
             that the Ministry of Rural Development should take concerted efforts to
             establish a single consolidated list of beneficiaries, determined through
             a uniform set of eligibility criteria based on recent and verifiable socio-
             economic data—such as the SECC 2011 or some other welfare
             databases so as to ensure that assistance reaches to those who are
             genuinely in need, while avoiding arbitrary ceilings and outdated
             classifications. The creation of a single list, guided by a common
             national standard, would enhance transparency, reduce administrative



                                          6
             burden, and bring coherence between Central and State interventions
             under NSAP.”

1.16   The following Action Taken Reply has been given by DoRD:
                      “At present NSAP schemes cater to 3.09 crore beneficiaries
             (2.97crore pensioners). The allocation of funds under NSAP schemes
             to States/ UTs is done on the basis of ceiling of beneficiaries (State
             Cap) or the number of beneficiaries digitized on the NSAP portal,
             whichever is lower. For calculating the State Cap for each State/ UT,
             the population figures as per the census of 2001 and the poverty ratio
             (2004-05) determined by NITI Aayog (erstwhile Planning Commission)
             have been taken into account.
                      In September, 2022, the State Caps were revised up to the
             actual number of digitized beneficiaries in respect of the States/ UTs
             which had digitization equal to or less than their ceiling in all the three
             pension schemes and the excess number of beneficiaries of these
             States/ UTs consequent to this revision was re-allocated to States/ UTs
             that had digitization equal to or higher than their State Cap in all the
             three pension schemes on a pro-rata basis. As a result, all the three
             pension schemes of under NSAP have achieved 100% saturation in
             September, 2022.
                      In view of the limitation of fund available, as per scheme
             guidelines of NSAP, if there are more deserving beneficiaries, the State
             has the option to give them pension from its own resources. These
             beneficiaries are beyond the number of beneficiaries supported under
             NSAP.
                      The Government while deciding the continuation of the NSAP
             schemes for the 15th Finance Commission cycle (2021-26), inter alia,
             considered the proposal of revising coverage (by adopting SECC
             criteria in place of BPL criteria). However, the Government had
             approved the continuation of NSAP schemes in its present form. As per
             information received from States/ UT’s, some of the States have taken
             into consideration of the deprivation criteria of SECC, in addition to
             eligibility criteria prescribed in the guidelines, for identification of most
             deserving beneficiaries.
                      An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for
             assessing its overall impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/
             recommendations including coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of
             assistance during its continuation in 16th Finance Commission cycle.”

                           Comments of the Committee


1.17   The Committee note from the Action Taken Reply that NSAP presently
covers about 3.09 crore beneficiaries, with allocation of funds to States/ UTs
based on the beneficiary ceiling (State Cap) or the number of beneficiaries
digitised on the NSAP portal, whichever is lower. The Committee, further note



                                           7
that the State caps are determined using Census- 2001 population figures and
poverty ratios of 2004–05, and that although adoption of SECC-based criteria
was considered while continuing NSAP for the 15th Finance Commission cycle
(2021–26), the scheme was approved in its present form. The Committee also
note that an evaluation study has been initiated to examine issues relating to
coverage, eligibility criteria and quantum of assistance for the next Finance
Commission cycle. The Committee note with concern that the Ministry has not
agreed to adopt a unified eligibility framework and continues to rely on
existing beneficiary caps and outdated criteria. The Committee are of the
considered opinion that the absence of a consolidated and updated
beneficiary database leads to exclusion of deserving persons from the
intended    benefits.   The    Committee,      therefore,    reiterate   their   earlier
recommendation and urge the Department to take concrete steps towards a
more updated and consolidated beneficiary identification framework based on
recent socio-economic data, and place before the Committee a time-bound
roadmap for improving the beneficiary database under NSAP.

V.     Upward Revision of Assistance under the National Family Benefit
       Scheme (NFBS)
                          Recommendation (Serial No. 6)
1.18 In the context of upward revision of assistance under the National Family
Benefit Scheme (NFBS), the Committee had recommended as below:
                    “The Committee also note that the one-time assistance of
             ₹20,000 provided under the National Family Benefit Scheme (NFBS)
             has not been revised in recent years, despite significant changes in the
             economic landscape. This amount is intended to support families who
             have lost their primary breadwinner, often under vulnerable and
             distressing circumstances. Given the rise in living costs and inflation,
             the Committee are, of the view that the current level of assistance is
             inadequate to meet the immediate needs of such families. The
             Committee, therefore, recommend that the Ministry of Rural
             Development should undertake to review the NFBS assistance amount
             and submit a proposal to the Cabinet seeking a substantial upward
             revision, so as to ensure that bereaved families receive timely and
             meaningful support during periods of hardship.”

1.19   The following Action Taken Reply has been given by DoRD:
                     “The existing rate of assistance, eligibility criteria, coverage etc
             under NSAP have been approved for the 15th Finance Commission
             cycle i.e. up to FY 2025-26. An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has


                                           8
             been initiated for assessing its overall impact on its objectives and to
             suggest road map/ recommendations including coverage/ eligibility
             criteria/ quantum of assistance during its continuation in 16th Finance
             Commission cycle.”
                          Comments of the Committee


1.20   The Committee find from the Action Taken Reply that the one-time
assistance of ₹20,000 under the National Family Benefit Scheme (NFBS)
continues to remain unchanged and that the existing rate of assistance,
eligibility criteria and coverage under NSAP have been approved for
continuation up to the 15th Finance Commission cycle (2021–26). Further, an
evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated to assess their impact
and to suggest a roadmap, including issues relating to coverage, eligibility
criteria and quantum of assistance for the next Finance Commission cycle.
The Committee, however, reiterate that the assistance under NFBS—intended
to provide immediate relief to families that have lost their primary
breadwinner—is grossly inadequate in the present economic context,
particularly in view of rising living costs and the financial distress faced by
such    households.    The    Committee,     therefore,   reiterate   their   earlier
recommendation and urge the Department to expedite the ongoing evaluation
and place before the Government a proposal for substantial enhancement of
the NFBS assistance, so as to ensure meaningful support to bereaved families
under the scheme.

VI.    Ensuring Compliance with 10% Earmarking for the North East
                         Recommendation (Serial No. 8)
1.21 In the context of Ensuring Compliance with 10% earmarking for the North
East, the Committee had recommended as below:
                     “The Committee observe that less than 5% of the NSAP budget
             is currently being utilised for the North Eastern Region, despite the
             mandatory earmarking of 10%. Although a temporary exemption was
             granted by the Ministry of DoNER in 2022, the Committee emphasise
             that such exemptions should remain exceptional and not set a
             precedent. The Committee recommend that the Ministry should ensure
             strict adherence to the 10% earmarking requirement and take proactive
             steps to support states in the North Eastern Region to facilitate timely
             submission of proposal and fund absorption/ utilisation.”

1.22   The following Action Taken Reply has been given by DoRD:


                                         9
                    “The allocation of funds under NSAP schemes to states/ UTs is
            done on the basis of the ceiling of beneficiaries (State Cap) or the
            number of beneficiaries digitized on the NSAP portal, whichever is
            lower. For calculating the State Cap for each State/ UT, the population
            figures as per the census of 2001 and the poverty ratio (2004-05)
            determined by NITI Aayog (erstwhile Planning Commission) have been
            taken into account. An amount of Rs 457.83 crore has been allocated
            for release to NE States during FY 2025-26, which is approx. 5% of the
            total budget outlay of the NSAP scheme. The mandatory allocation of
            10% of funds to NER could not be achieved due to a fixed state cap on
            the eligible beneficiaries under NSAP. Also, the release of funds to
            North East States is dependent upon proposals from the state/ UT
            concerned in compliance with scheme guidelines/ MoF guidelines.
                    In this connection, M/o DoNER has clarified that mandatory
            allocation and utilization of 10% GBS holds good for the entire Ministry
            or Department, as a whole. In case the Department is unable to spend
            10% of the Budget provision under any particular scheme(s) of the
            Department, it can always consider re-appropriation to other schemes
            of the Department so as to attain the overall target of at least 10% GBS
            expenditure for NER for the Department as a whole.”

                          Comments of the Committee


1.23   The Committee note from the Action Taken Reply that allocation of
funds under NSAP to States/ UTs is based on the ceiling of beneficiaries (State
Cap) or the number of beneficiaries digitised on the NSAP portal. North
Eastern States in FY 2025–26 have been allocated 5% of the total NSAP budget
outlay. The Ministry has further stated that the mandatory 10% earmarking for
the North Eastern Region could not be achieved due to the fixed State caps on
beneficiaries and that releases are dependent on submission of proposals by
the concerned States/ UTs. It has also been indicated that the 10% expenditure
requirement is to be achieved at the level of the Ministry/ Department as a
whole, and not necessarily under each individual scheme. The Committee are
of the considered view that statutory or policy earmarking provisions should
not be diluted due to administrative constraints. The Committee remain
concerned that utilisation of less than the mandated proportion of funds under
NSAP for the North Eastern Region undermines the objective of equitable
regional   development.     The     Committee,      therefore,    reiterate    their
recommendation that the Department should review the beneficiary caps and
allocation methodology, and take proactive measures to facilitate timely



                                        10
submission of proposals by the concerned States so as to progressively move
towards ensuring compliance with the 10% earmarking for the North Eastern
Region.




                                    11
                                      CHAPTER II


            RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH HAVE BEEN ACCEPTED BY
                         THE GOVERNMENT

                            Recommendation (Serial No. 5)

2.1    The Committee observe that access to avail the benefits under the National
Social Assistance Programme (NSAP), particularly for vulnerable populations, is
often hindered by procedural complexities. In several regions, the process of form
filling and beneficiary selection under NSAP has become increasingly agent driven,
leading to the exploitation of illiterate or uninformed applicants. The Committee are
concerned that this has resulted in the exclusion of many eligible individuals who are
either unable to understand the application processes or cannot afford to pay
intermediaries. The Committee, therefore, recommend that the Ministry of Rural
Development should review and simplify the procedural guidelines for enrolment
under NSAP, and consider relaxing certain documentation or verification
requirements to improve accessibility, especially for beneficiaries belonging to
vulnerable and marginalised groups.


                                   Reply of the Government
2.2     As per NSAP guidelines, responsibility of implementation of NSAP schemes,
identification/ verification of beneficiaries, disbursal of pension to beneficiaries,
stoppage of pension, annual verification of beneficiaries lies in the hand of States/
UTs. Further, as per NSAP guidelines the States may prepare a simple format in the
local language and make the application forms available widely, free of cost. Also, it
should be downloadable from the website. While individuals can file applications, it is
incumbent on the authorized officials to reach out to potential beneficiaries on an ‘out
today’ approach and get the application forms filled up and provide assistance to get
the relevant records. Field level workers/ officials should be entrusted with the task of
identifying beneficiaries and getting the forms filled up. Also, support should be
provided to get the requisite certificates from the authorities concerned.

       In order to further streamline and simplify the process of enrolment of
beneficiaries, NSAP-PPS portal has been operationalized by the Centre and made
available for the use of States/ UTs.

       Further, as per NSAP guidelines, States are mandated to develop a careful
plan sensitive to the special needs of the beneficiaries to enable them to get
Aadhaar numbers through proactive outreach. This should be followed up by
seeding the Aadhaar numbers in the Bank/ Post Office accounts. Also, there is a
provision in the guidelines that no beneficiary should be denied his or her


                                           12
entitlements for the reason that she has no bank/ Post Office account and/ or
Aadhaar number.

       The recommendation of the Committee has since been shared with the
States/ UTs for necessary action.
                    (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)

                           Recommendation (Serial No. 7)

2.3    The Committee express deep concern over persistent implementation gaps in
several states, particularly in the North Eastern Region. Notably, no funds have been
released to Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim due to non-submission of proposals,
while Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland have not yet onboarded the MIS system.
The Committee recommend that the Ministry should intensify engagement with these
states, conduct special review meetings, and provide targeted technical assistance
to expedite onboarding and ensure the effective utilisation of funds without any
further delay.
                                  Reply of the Government
2.4    The process of implementation of the schemes is constantly monitored/
reviewed by the Ministry of Rural Development through Performance Review
Committee (PRC), quarterly review meetings, Area Officers visit and also monitoring
by District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committees (DISHA) which
have been constituted by Ministry of Rural Development at district levels. States are
given necessary handholding for submission of the proposal for timely release of
funds. Despite continuous follow ups and review, some States do not submit
proposal, complete in all respects, in time. Also, some States lack in complying with
the guidelines issued by D/o Expenditure on fund flow mechanism under Centrally
Sponsored Schemes. These kinds deviation result in delayed release of funds to
such States/ UTs. With consistent efforts, pending liabilities pertaining to various
States/ UTs have been released during 2024-25 and efforts are underway to resolve
the issues in release matter in respects States/ UTs having outstanding liabilities. In
a specific case of Sikkim, relaxation for a deviation in complying with the guidelines
on fund flow mechanism was referred to D/o Expenditure and obtained one time
relaxation for disbursing the liablities. Also, State level hand-holding training has
been conducted in Sikkim during June, 2025 for completing the transition to pension
disbursal completely through NSAP portal.

        As a result of consistent follow up, Mizoram has been on-boarded on NSAP-
PPS Portal during 2024-25. Nagaland & Arunachal Pradesh are also being pursued
for on-boarding on the portal. The States have been advised for digitizing the
beneficiary data, which is an important prerequisite for on-boarding on NSAP-PPS
portal.
                        (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)




                                          13
                            Recommendation (Serial No. 9)

2.5    Several states supplement the central pension amount under NSAP with
additional top-up contributions ranging from ₹50 to ₹3,716 per month per beneficiary.
As a result, NSAP beneficiaries in many states receive an average pension of
approximately ₹1,000 per month. However, the Committee note with concern that
the Union Territory of Lakshadweep has not been utilising funds allocated under the
National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) in recent years. Instead, the UT has
been disbursing only the state-funded top-up amount without drawing the central
assistance available under the scheme. This is particularly concerning given the
small population size and high vulnerability of residents in the UT. The failure of
Lakshadweep Administration to utilise the central allocation therefore, deprives not
only its eligible beneficiaries of their rightful entitlements but also undermines the
objectives of the scheme. The Committee, therefore, recommend that the Ministry of
Rural Development should directly engage with the UT administration of
Lakshadweep to identify and address the administrative or procedural bottlenecks
that have led to non-utilisation of central share of funds. The Committee, also further,
recommend that the Ministry should provide the necessary technical and operational
support to the UT administration of Lakshadweep to facilitate the timely submission
of proposals and utilisation certificates and ensure that eligible beneficiaries in
Lakshadweep receive the dual benefits of both central and UT contributions, in parity
with other beneficiaries in other parts of the country.


                                   Reply of the Government
2.6     The report of the Committee has since been shared with the UT
administration of Lakshadweep for necessary action. The matter relating to
submission of proposal has been followed up with the UT administration regularly.
However, no proposal has been received since 2012-13. UT is being extended
necessary handholding support and regularly followed up for submission of proposal
for release of funds.
                      (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)

                            Recommendation (Serial No. 10)

2.7    The Committee are concerned about the multiple access barriers faced by
elderly beneficiaries in receiving their pensions under NSAP. A significant number of
elderly persons, particularly those in advanced age or with disabilities, face
challenges with Aadhaar-based biometric authentication due to the deterioration or


                                           14
loss of fingerprints. There are also eligible persons but they do not have bank/post
office account and an Aadhaar Number. This has led to transaction failures, denial of
pensions, and a loss of trust in the delivery mechanism. The Committee also note
that weak banking infrastructure in rural areas further exacerbates these challenges.
Frequent disruptions in banking services particularly due to non-functional servers,
connectivity issues, and the limited presence of functional branches in rural and
remote areas have a disproportionate impact on beneficiaries who are often required
to travel long distances to access their entitlements. The cost, effort, and physical
strain involved in reaching distant post offices, bank branches or CSPs (Customer
Service Points) frequently outweigh the value of the pension itself. The Committee
recommend that a proper and inclusive mechanism should be developed to address
these challenges in a systematic manner which should invariably include alternative
means of inclusion, verification for elderly and disabled persons who do not have
bank/ post office account, Aadhar number and also those who face difficulties with
biometric authentication, and improvements in banking access to ensure
uninterrupted pension delivery. The Committee, further, recommend that greater
emphasis should be placed on developing last-mile delivery systems particularly in
geographically isolated and underserved areas to ensure that the process of
receiving pension is dignified, accessible, and responsive to the limitations faced by
the most vulnerable sections of society.


                                  Reply of the Government
2.8    As per NSAP guidelines, no beneficiary should be denied his or her
entitlements for the reason that she has no bank/ Post Office account and/ or
Aadhaar number. Further, States are mandated to develop a careful plan sensitive to
the special needs of the beneficiaries to enable them to get Aadhaar numbers
through proactive outreach. This should be followed up by seeding the Aadhaar
numbers in the Bank/ Post Office accounts.

       The Department had repeatedly requested States/ UTs on providing last mile
benefits to NSAP beneficiaries who are very old, infirm, bed-ridden and disabled. As
per information received from States/ UT’s, some states have devised mechanism to
disburse pension at doorsteps with the help Banking Correspondents, SHG
members, Anganwadi workers, Banking Sakhis etc. to most vulnerable beneficiaries
such as old age, infirm and divyangjan beneficiaries.

      Also, under NSAP, almost all States/ UTs are DBT compliant except the
States of Andhra Pradesh & Nagaland. In Andhra Pradesh, pension is dispensed to
NSAP beneficiaries at doorstep in cash through biometric authentication and


                                           15
Nagaland provides pension through cash mode to majority of its beneficiaries due to
geographical terrain.

      The Department through a DO letter dated 6th December, 2024 at the level of
Secretary (RD) addressed to Chief Secretaries of all States/ UTs had advised that
the use of technology and digitization should not impede implementation of NSAP
scheme as beneficiaries under NSAP scheme are old age, widow and divyangjans
belong to BPL Households.
                     (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)




                                        16
                           CHAPTER III


RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH THE COMMITTEE DO NOT DESIRE TO PURSUE

             IN VIEW OF REPLIES OF THE GOVERNMENT




                                NIL




     (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)




                                17
                                      CHAPTER IV

           RECOMMENDATIONS IN RESPECT OF WHICH REPLIES OF THE

          GOVERNMENT HAVE NOT BEEN ACCEPTED BY THE COMMITTEE

                            Recommendation (Serial No. 1)

4.1    The Committee note with concern that the budgetary allocation made for
payment of pension under the NSAP have remained stagnant at approximately
₹9,500 crore per annum since 2015–16, with only a marginal increase to ₹9,652
crore in the Budget Estimates for 2025–26. This stagnation in allocation, despite
inflation and rising beneficiary needs, has resulted in a real-term decline in
assistance—wherein the value of the 2025–26 allocation, when adjusted for inflation,
is estimated to be only ₹9,200 crore. As a percentage of the total Union Budget, the
NSAP’s share has fallen sharply from 0.58% in 2014–15 to just 0.19% in 2025–26.
While the Centre continues to cap its support at 3.09 crore beneficiaries, state
governments have taken on a disproportionate burden by covering nearly twice this
number which is approximately about 5.86 crore additional beneficiaries. The
Committee also note that the central contribution for various NSAP schemes has not
been revised since the last more than 10 years and that the government does not
have any proposal under consideration to revamp the NSAP with the result that the
existing rates do not reflect actual demand and ground realities of the present time.
The Committee, therefore, recommend that the Department of Rural Development
should prepare and submit a revised proposal for Cabinet consideration and
approval seeking a substantial enhancement in pension amounts and overall
allocations under NSAP.

                              Reply of the Government

4.2   The existing rate of assistance, eligibility criteria, coverage etc under NSAP
have been approved for the 15th Finance Commission cycle i.e upto FY 2025-26.
During 2022-23, 2023-24 and 2024-25, out of the allocation of Rs.9652 crore,
expenditure of Rs.9652 crore, Rs.9491.11 and crore Rs.9652 crore respectively
have been incurred under NSAP.
       An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for assessing its
overall impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/ recommendations
including coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of assistance during its continuation in
16th Finance Commission cycle.




                                           18
                        (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)

                             Comments of the Committee

               (Please see Paragraph No. 1.8 of Chapter I of the Report)

                            Recommendation (Serial No. 2)

4.3    The Committee are of the considered opinion that the absence of a
mechanism to revise pensions in line with inflation and cost of living has contributed
to the erosion of the real value of assistance under NSAP. Given the projected 18%
increase in the elderly population over the coming decade and the recommendations
of various expert committees and evaluation study including those of NITI Aayog, the
Committee     recommend       that   a    principle-based    mechanism       should    be
created/instituted to automatically index pensions to inflation and revise them on an
annual or biennial basis.
                              Reply of the Government

4.4     An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for assessing its
overall impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/ recommendations
including coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of assistance during its continuation in
16th Finance Commission cycle.
                        (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)

                             Comments of the Committee

              (Please see Paragraph No. 1.11 of Chapter I of the Report)


                            Recommendation (Serial No. 3)

4.5    The Committee note that several States supplement the central pension
provided under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) with additional
top-up contributions, which vary significantly from as low as ₹50 to as high as ₹3,716
per month per beneficiary. The Committee appreciate such efforts made by State
Governments which is a clear reflection of the States’ intent and commitment to
strengthen social security of the deprived section of the society. However, at the
same time, the Committee are concerned that this wide disparity in pension amounts
across States undermines the principle of equity and results in similarly placed
beneficiaries receiving vastly different levels of support solely based on their state of
residence. The Committee are of the view that the absence of a uniform framework
for state contributions risks distorting the core objectives of NSAP, which is intended


                                           19
to serve as a minimum national guarantee of social security. To address this, the
Committee recommend that the Ministry prescribe a standard cost-sharing
framework, in line with other centrally sponsored schemes—60:40 for most states
and 90:10 for North Eastern and Himalayan states. Such a normative framework
would preserve the essence of equity of the scheme, prevent excessive divergence
across states, and ensure that NSAP fulfils its intended role as an assured
guarantee of support for elderly persons, widows, and persons with disabilities,
rather than becoming a fragmented or unevenly implemented welfare scheme. The
Committee, therefore, further recommend that the Ministry should establish clearly
defined minimum and maximum permissible limits for top-up contributions, below
and above which states should not be permitted to contribute.


                             Reply of the Government
4.6    As social security, invalid and old age pensions figure as items 23 and 24 in
the Concurrent List (7th Schedule) of the Constitution, both the Central Government
and States/ UTs have the responsibility for working in tandem in rolling out a
comprehensive social security framework for the country. Accordingly, as per NSAP
guidelines, the State/ UTs are encouraged to provide top up amounts at least an
equivalent amount to the assistance provided by the Central Govt. so that the
beneficiaries could get a decent level of assistance.

       Based on various recommendations and evaluation studies, a proposal for
revamp of NSAP, which inter-alia included revision in eligibility criteria, rate of
assistance and sharing arrangement with the States was considered during
continuation of NSAP for the 15th Finance Commission cycle (2021-26). However,
the Government has approved continuation of NSAP schemes in its present form. An
evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for assessing its overall
impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/ recommendations including
coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of assistance, Central/ State sharing pattern
etc. during its continuation in 16th Finance Commission cycle.
                       (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)

                           Comments of the Committee

              (Please see Paragraph No. 1.14 of Chapter I of the Report)

                           Recommendation (Serial No. 4)

4.7   The Committee note with concern that the current system of determining
beneficiaries under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) continues to
rely on the outdated 2001 Below Poverty Line (BPL) list. This antiquated
methodology fails to reflect present-day socio-economic realities and excludes a


                                         20
substantial number of genuinely eligible individuals. At the same time, the Committee
observe that while the Centre supports 3.09 crore beneficiaries under NSAP, various
state governments have recognised and extended support to an additional 5.86
crore individuals from their own resources. This parallel structure wherein the Centre
and States implement effectively two separate beneficiary groups under the similar
schemes—creates significant administrative inconsistencies and opens the door to
both exclusion of deserving individuals and inclusion of ineligible beneficiaries. It also
results in duplication of efforts, fragmented monitoring, and dilution of accountability.
The Committee are of the considered view that a unified and transparent beneficiary
identification system is essential to effectively implement the NSAP schemes in letter
and spirit. The Committee, therefore, recommend that the Ministry of Rural
Development should take concerted efforts to establish a single consolidated list of
beneficiaries, determined through a uniform set of eligibility criteria based on recent
and verifiable socio-economic data—such as the SECC 2011 or some other welfare
databases so as to ensure that assistance reaches to those who are genuinely in
need, while avoiding arbitrary ceilings and outdated classifications. The creation of a
single list, guided by a common national standard, would enhance transparency,
reduce administrative burden, and bring coherence between Central and State
interventions under NSAP.


                              Reply of the Government
4.8     At present NSAP schemes cater to 3.09 crore beneficiaries (2.97crore
pensioners). The allocation of funds under NSAP schemes to States/ UTs is done on
the basis of ceiling of beneficiaries (State Cap) or the number of beneficiaries
digitized on the NSAP portal, whichever is lower. For calculating the State Cap for
each State/ UT, the population figures as per the census of 2001 and the poverty
ratio (2004-05) determined by NITI Aayog (erstwhile Planning Commission) have
been taken into account.

        In September, 2022, the State Caps were revised up to the actual number of
digitized beneficiaries in respect of the States/ UTs which had digitization equal to or
less than their ceiling in all the three pension schemes and the excess number of
beneficiaries of these States/ UTs consequent to this revision was re-allocated to
States/ UTs that had digitization equal to or higher than their State Cap in all the
three pension schemes on a pro-rata basis. As a result, all the three pension
schemes of under NSAP have achieved 100% saturation in September, 2022.

       In view of the limitation of fund available, as per scheme guidelines of NSAP,
if there are more deserving beneficiaries, the State has the option to give them



                                           21
pension from its own resources. These beneficiaries are beyond the number of
beneficiaries supported under NSAP.

       The Government while deciding the continuation of the NSAP schemes for the
15th Finance Commission cycle (2021-26), inter alia, considered the proposal of
revising coverage (by adopting SECC criteria in place of BPL criteria). However, the
Government had approved the continuation of NSAP schemes in its present form. As
per information received from States/ UT’s, some of the States have taken into
consideration of the deprivation criteria of SECC, in addition to eligibility criteria
prescribed in the guidelines, for identification of most deserving beneficiaries.

       An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for assessing its
overall impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/ recommendations
including coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of assistance during its continuation in
16th Finance Commission cycle.
                        (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)

                             Comments of the Committee

              (Please see Paragraph No. 1.17 of Chapter I of the Report)

                            Recommendation (Serial No. 6)

4.9    The Committee also note that the one-time assistance of ₹20,000 provided
under the National Family Benefit Scheme (NFBS) has not been revised in recent
years, despite significant changes in the economic landscape. This amount is
intended to support families who have lost their primary breadwinner, often under
vulnerable and distressing circumstances. Given the rise in living costs and inflation,
the Committee are, of the view that the current level of assistance is inadequate to
meet the immediate needs of such families. The Committee, therefore, recommend
that the Ministry of Rural Development should undertake to review the NFBS
assistance amount and submit a proposal to the Cabinet seeking a substantial
upward revision, so as to ensure that bereaved families receive timely and
meaningful support during periods of hardship.


                              Reply of the Government
4.10 The existing rate of assistance, eligibility criteria, coverage etc under NSAP
have been approved for the 15th Finance Commission cycle i.e. up to FY 2025-26.
An evaluation study of NSAP schemes has been initiated for assessing its overall
impact on its objectives and to suggest road map/ recommendations including
coverage/ eligibility criteria/ quantum of assistance during its continuation in 16th
Finance Commission cycle.
                        (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)


                                           22
                             Comments of the Committee

              (Please see Paragraph No. 1.20 of Chapter I of the Report)

                            Recommendation (Serial No. 8)

4.11   The Committee observe that less than 5% of the NSAP budget is currently
being utilised for the North Eastern Region, despite the mandatory earmarking of
10%. Although a temporary exemption was granted by the Ministry of DoNER in
2022, the Committee emphasise that such exemptions should remain exceptional
and not set a precedent. The Committee recommend that the Ministry should ensure
strict adherence to the 10% earmarking requirement and take proactive steps to
support states in the North Eastern Region to facilitate timely submission of proposal
and fund absorption/ utilisation.


                              Reply of the Government
4.12 The allocation of funds under NSAP schemes to states/ UTs is done on the
basis of the ceiling of beneficiaries (State Cap) or the number of beneficiaries
digitized on the NSAP portal, whichever is lower. For calculating the State Cap for
each State/ UT, the population figures as per the census of 2001 and the poverty
ratio (2004-05) determined by NITI Aayog (erstwhile Planning Commission) have
been taken into account. An amount of Rs 457.83 crore has been allocated for
release to NE States during FY 2025-26, which is approx. 5% of the total budget
outlay of the NSAP scheme. The mandatory allocation of 10% of funds to NER could
not be achieved due to a fixed state cap on the eligible beneficiaries under NSAP.
Also, the release of funds to North East States is dependent upon proposals from the
state/ UT concerned in compliance with scheme guidelines/ MoF guidelines.

         In this connection, M/o DoNER has clarified that mandatory allocation and
utilization of 10% GBS holds good for the entire Ministry or Department, as a whole.
In case the Department is unable to spend 10% of the Budget provision under any
particular scheme(s) of the Department, it can always consider re-appropriation to
other schemes of the Department so as to attain the overall target of at least 10%
GBS expenditure for NER for the Department as a whole.
                        (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)

                             Comments of the Committee

              (Please see Paragraph No. 1.23 of Chapter I of the Report)




                                         23
                                CHAPTER V


       RECOMMENDATIONS IN RESPECT OF WHICH FINAL REPLIES OF

                   THE GOVERNMENT ARE STILL AWAITED




                                     NIL




          (O.M. No. H-11013/02/2017-NSAP-Part (2) dated 03.07.2025)




NEW DELHI                                            Saptagiri Sankar Ulaka
01 April, 2026                                                  Chairperson
11 Chaitra, 1948 (Saka)        Standing Committee on Rural Development and
                                                             Panchayati Raj




                                     24
                                                                       ANNEXURE I

                         [Vide para 4 of Introduction of Report]

     ANALYSIS OF THE ACTION TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT ON THE
RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN THE NINTH REPORT (18TH LOK SABHA) OF
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND PANCHAYATI RAJ


   I.     Total number of recommendations:                                      10

   II.    Observations/ Recommendations which have been accepted by the
          Government:
          Serial Nos. 5, 7, 9, 10
                                                                           Total: 04
                                                                   Percentage: 40%
   III.    Observations/ Recommendations which the Committee do not desire
          to pursue in view of replies of the Government:
              Serial No. NIL
                                                                         Total: NIL
                                                                    Percentage: 0%


   IV.    Observations/ Recommendations in respect of which replies of the
          Government have not been accepted by the Committee:
          Serial No. 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8
                                                                           Total: 06
                                                                   Percentage: 60%
   V.     Observations/ Recommendations in respect of which final replies of the
          Government are still awaited:
          Serial No. NIL
                                                                         Total: NIL
                                                                    Percentage: 0%




                                        25
