Indexed extraction via Exa of official-host CAG PDF; fetched 7 October 2026. Direct publisher download returned HTTP 503. Not a retained original PDF.
URL: https://cag.gov.in/uploads/media/Auditing-Standards-new-20201111121524-20201224220205.pdf
Locator: 2.5.2.2, Conducting an Audit; 2017 edition.

2.5.2.2 Conducting an Audit a) Auditors shall perform audit procedures that provide sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to support the audit report The auditor’s decisions on the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures will impact on the evidence to be obtained. The choice of procedures will depend on the risk assessment or problem analysis. Audit evidence is any information used by the auditor to determine whether the subject matter complies with the applicable criteria. Evidence may take many forms, such as electronic and paper records of transactions, written and electronic communication with outsiders, and observations by the auditor and oral or written testimony by the audited entity. Methods of obtaining audit evidence can include inspection, observation, inquiry, confirmation, recalculation, re-performance, analytical procedures and/or other research techniques. Evidence shall be both sufficient (quantity) to persuade a knowledgeable person that the findings are reasonable, and appropriate (quality) – i.e. relevant, valid and reliable. The quantity of evidence required depends on the risk of material misstatement or non compliance of the subject matter information (the greater the risk, the more evidence is likely to be required) and on the quality of such evidence (the higher the quality, the less may be required). Accordingly, the sufficiency and appropriateness of evidence are interrelated. However, merely obtaining more evidence does not compensate for its poor quality. The reliability of evidence is influenced by its source and nature, and is dependent on the specific circumstances in which the evidence was obtained. While recognizing that exceptions may exist, the following generalizations about the reliability of evidence may be useful: a) Evidence is more reliable when it is obtained from sources external to the responsible party. b) Evidence that is generated internally is more reliable when the related controls are effective c) Evidence obtained directly by the auditor (for example, through observation of the application of a control) is more reliable than evidence obtained indirectly or by inference (for example, through inquiry into the application of a control). d) Evidence is more reliable when it exists in documentary form, whether paper, electronic, or other media (for example, a simultaneous written record of a meeting is more reliable than a subsequent oral report of what was discussed).

e) Evidence provided by original documents is more reliable than evidence provided by photocopies or facsimiles. The auditor’s assessment of the evidence shall be objective, fair and balanced. Preliminary findings shall be communicated to and discussed with the entity being audited to confirm their validity. The auditor must respect all requirements regarding confidentiality. b) Auditors shall evaluate the audit evidence and draw conclusions After completing the audit procedures, the auditor will review the audit documentation in order to determine whether the subject matter has been sufficiently and appropriately audited. Before drawing conclusions, the auditor reconsiders the initial assessment of risk and materiality in the light of the evidence collected and determines whether additional audit procedures need to be performed. The auditor shall evaluate the audit evidence with a view to obtaining audit findings. When evaluating the audit evidence and assessing materiality of findings the auditor shall take both quantitative and qualitative factors into consideration. Based on the findings, the auditor shall exercise professional judgement to reach a conclusion on the subject matter or subject matter information. 

