--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 1 ---
Page 1 of 46 
 
 
 
 
 
JUSTICE (RETD.) R.M. LODHA COMMITTEE  
(IN THE MATTER OF PACL LIMITED) 
 
 
 
 
 
SEBI BHAVAN, PLOT NO C4-A, G BLOCK, BANDRA KURLA 
COMPLEX, BANDRA EAST, MUMBAI – 400 051 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TENDER DOCUMENT FOR E-AUCTION-SALE OF PROPERTIES 
BENGALURU RURAL 
 
 
 
 
 
Tender Document No: JRMLC/KAR/BENRUR 
 
 
 
September 30, 2026 
  
--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 2 ---
Page 2 of 46 
DEFINITIONS  
 
Agency As defined in Clause 1.1 
Bidder As defined in Clause 2.5 
Bid Form As defined in Clause 2.8(i) 
Bidder’s Manual As defined in Clause 2.10(v) 
Committee As defined in Clause 1.1 
Company As defined in Clause 1.1 
Consortium As defined in Clause 2.5(i) 
EMD As defined in Clause 2.7(i) 
E-Auction Service Provider As defined in Clause 1.11 
Governmental Instrumentality As defined in Clause 2.5(i) 
Intimation As defined in Clause 2.13 
Lead Member As defined in Clause 2.5(ii) 
Notice of Sale As defined in Clause 2 
Order As defined in Clause 1.1 
Property(ies) As defined in Clause 1.1 
Portal As defined in Clause 1.11 
Proof of Address As defined in Clause 2.8(i) (d)  
Reserve Price As defined in Clause 2.4 
SEBI As defined in Clause 1.1 
Subsequent Orders As defined in Clause 1.10 (ii) 
Successful Bidder As defined in Clause 2.13 
Hon’ble Supreme Court As defined in Clause 1.1 
Technically Qualified Bidders As defined in Clause 2.9 (ii) 
Tender Document As defined in Clause 1.3 
 
  
--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 3 ---
Page 3 of 46 
1. BACKGROUND AND IMPORTANT INFORMATION  
 
1.1 The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“ Hon’ble Supreme Court”), vide an order dated 
February 02, 2016 passed in Civil Appeal Nos. 13301/2015 titled Subrata Bhattacharya vs. 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  (“the Order”), directed the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“ SEBI”) to constitute a committee for disposing of the land/ properties 
purchased by PACL Limited (“ the Company”) so that the sale p roceeds can be paid to the 
investors, who have invested their funds in the Company. The Hon’ble Supreme Court further 
directed that Hon’ble Shri Justice (Retd) R.M. Lodha, former Chief Justice of India, would be 
the Chairman of the said committee. The Justice (Retd) R.M. Lodha Committee (in the matter 
of PACL Limited), the committee so constituted by the SEBI (“the Committee”), has engaged 
the services of StockHolding Document Management Services Limited (“Agency”) to assist 
the Committee in connection with the sale of the Company’s properties specified in Annexure 
1 of the Tender Document (“the Properties”), through a tender platform on an ‘as is where is, 
whatever there is’ basis. The Committee is not the owner of the Properties.  The Committee 
reserves the right to take appropriate steps , including lodging criminal complaint with police/ 
Central Bureau of Investigation, if any person(s) are found acting in concert for the purpose of 
delaying or defeating the auction process as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. 
 
1.2 No person associated with PACL Limited in any manner whatsoever shall be permitted to bid. 
Bidders shall submit a declaration that they are not a ‘related party’ of PACL Limited and/ or 
its group/  associate companies and/  or its director (s), whether past or present , and/ or its 
promoter(s). For the purpose of this clause, ‘related party’ shall mean any individual or entity, 
including, but not limited to , a company, firm, partnership, agent, proprietorship, etc., in any 
manner connected directly or indirectly with and/  or controlled by PACL Limited and/ or its 
group/ associate companies and/  or its director (s), whether past or present , and/ or its 
promoter(s). In the event the Committee discovers or is of the opinion that Bidder is a ‘related 
party’ as aforesaid, the Committee shall be entitled to reject such Bidder’s bid and/ or terminate/ 
cancel the sale and to forfeit the EMD and/ or any other mon ies deposited by such Bidder 
without notice to the Bidder. 
 
1.3 The information contained in this tender  document for sale of the Properties (“ the Tender 
Document”) or subsequently provided to Bidder(s), in documentary or any other form by or on 
behalf of the Committee and/ or any of its advisors, is provided to Bidder(s) on the terms and 
conditions set out in the Tender Document. 
 
1.4 The Tender Document is neither an agreement nor an offer by the Committee to the prospective 
Bidders or any other person. The purpose of th e Tender Document is to provide interested 
parties with information that may be useful to them in making their bids pursuant to the Tender 
Document. The Tender Document may not be appropriate for all persons and it is not possible 
for the Committee and its advisors to consider the investment objectives, financial situation and 
particular needs of each party who reads or uses th e Tender Document. The assumptions, 
assessments, statements and information contained in th e Tender Document may not be 
complete, acc urate, adequate or correct. Each Bidder should, therefore, conduct its own 
investigations and analysis and should check the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, reliability 
and completeness of the assumptions, assessments, statements and information contained in the 
Tender Document and obtain independent advice from appropriate sources before submitting a 
bid. 
 
1.5 Information provided in the Tender Document to the Bidder(s) has been collated from several 
sources some of which may depend upon interpretation of appl icable law. The information 
given is not intended to be an exhaustive account of statutory requirements and should not be 
regarded as complete.  
 
1.6 The Committee and its advisors make no representation or warranty and shall have no liability 
--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 4 ---
Page 4 of 46 
to any person, i ncluding any Bidder under any law, statute, rules or regulations or tort, 
principles of restitution or unjust enrichment or otherwise for any loss, damages, cost or 
expense which may arise from or be incurred or suffered on account of anything contained in  
the Tender Document or otherwise, including the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, 
completeness or reliability of the Tender Document and any assessment, assumption, statement 
or information contained therein or deemed to form part of the Tender Document or arising in 
any way from participation in the tender process. 
 
1.7 The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, but without being under any obligation to do so, 
update, amend or supplement the information, process or assumptions contained in the Tender 
Document. 
 
1.8 The issue of the Tender Document does not imply that the Committee is bound to select a 
Bidder, Technically Qualified Bidder or Successful Bidder and the Committee reserves the right 
(without incurring any liability) to reject all or any of the Bidders, Technically Qualified Bidder 
or Successful Bidder or bids at its sole discretion. 
 
1.9 Each Bidder shall bear all its costs associated with or relating to the preparation and submission 
of its bid including but not limited to preparation, copying, po stage, delivery fees, expenses 
related to the submitting bids, expenses associated with any site visits, due diligence etc., if any, 
or any other costs incurred in connection with or relating to its bid including EMD. Should the 
Committee require any clarifications or further submissions or additional documents from the 
Bidder, the same shall also be provided/ submitted/ furnished by the Bidder in a timebound 
manner and the Bidder shall bear all costs associated with the providing/ submitting/ furnishing 
such further submissions or additional documents. 
 
1.10 The sale of the Properties will be conducted in terms of: 
 
(i) Order(s) of the Hon’ble Supreme Court; 
 
(ii) Orders dated April 05, 2016, July 25, 2016 and August 08, 2024 passed by the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No 13301/2015 together with any other subsequent 
order(s) that may be passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No 13301/ 
2015 titled Subrata Bhattacharya vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India and other 
connected matters (hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Subsequent Orders”); 
 
(iii) Provisions of applicable laws; and 
 
(iv) Terms and conditions of the Tender Document/ Notice of Sale. 
 
1.11 C1 India Private Limited  has been appointed as the tender service provider (“ E-Auction 
Service Provider”). The sale of the Properties will be on an ‘as is where is, whatever there 
is’ basis and shall be undertaken by the Agency for and on behalf of the Committee through the 
portal (“Portal”) provided on the website of the E-Auction Service Provider. Other details with 
respect to the tender process are as follows: 
 
Type of Bid 
 
E-Auction 
Committee Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha Committee (In the Matter of PACL Limited) 
 
Agency StockHolding Document Management Services Ltd. 
SHCIL House, P-51, T.T.C Industrial Area, M.I.D.C  
Mahape, Navi Mumbai- 400710 
Email ID:  pacl.eauction@stockholdingdms.com  
 
--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 5 ---
Page 5 of 46 
Name of E-Auction 
Service Provider 
C1 India Private Limited  
Plot No. 68, Sector 44, Gurugram- 122003, Haryana, India 
Contact Person: BankeAuctions  
 
Help Desk Mob: +91 7291981124 / 1125 / 1126 Support Desk 
Helpline No: +91-124-4302020 / 21 / 22 / 23 +91- 7291981124 / 
1125 / 1126 Email ID: support@bankeauctions.com 
Website of the E-
Auction Service 
Provider 
 
https://bankeauctions.com 
Annexures 1. Annexure 1 – Description of Properties 
 
2. Annexure 2 – Declaration by the Bidder(s)  
 
Instruction: This document is required to be duly filled in and signed 
by the Bidder themselves (in case of the Bidder being a resident  
Indian citizen, non-resident Indian or sole proprietorship), the karta 
(in case the Bidder is a Hindu Undivided Family) and the holder of 
the power of attorney (in case the Bidder is a partnership firm, 
limited liability partnership, company, trust, socie ty, Governmental 
Instrumentality or Consortium). The Bidder will then be required to 
take a print -out of the filled in form, sign the same and thereafter 
upload it on the Portal. 
 
3. Annexure 3 – Technical Terms and Conditions of Tender Process 
for Sale of Properties  
 
4. Annexure 4 – Format of Sale Certificate 
 
5. Annexure 5 – Format of Power of Attorney 
 
Instruction: This power of attorney is required to be furnished only 
in case of the following type of Bidders: 
(a) Partnership firm formed under the Indian Partnership Act, 
1932; 
(b) Limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008 
(c) Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013 
(d) Society registered/ set up under laws of India 
(e) Trust registered/ set up under laws of India 
(f) Governmental Instrumentality 
(g) Consortium whose Lead Member is an entity listed under (a) 
to (f) above.  
 
The Bidder will upload it on the Portal. 
 
6. Annexure 6 – Format of Joint Bidding Agreement 
 
7. Annexure 7 – Format of Power of Attorney for Lead Member 
 
Instruction: This power of attorney is required to be furnished only 
in case of a Consortium. The Bidder will upload it on the Portal. 
 
8. Annexure 8 – Treatment of Properties Auctioned as a Single Lot 
 
--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 15 ---
Page 15 of 46 
concluded. 
 
(iv) Technically Qualified Bidders are advised to enter their bid accordingly keeping in 
mind the 5 (five) minutes duration as specified above. 
 
(v) No complaint on the time -factor for bidding or paucity of time for bidding will be 
entertained by the Agency and/ or the Committee. 
 
(vi) In the event that only a single bid is received on the e-auction portal, the auction process 
shall stand annulled.  
 
2.12 Intimation to the Technically Qualified Bidder submitting the highest bid 
 
After the conclusion of the tender process, and subject to approval of the Committee, the 
Technically Qualified Bidder submitting the highest bid shall be informed through an email to 
the e-mail ID used at the time of registration, of the outcome of the tender process and that the 
Technically Qualified Bidder has submitted the highest bid for the tender process. 
 
2.13 Intimation to the Successful Bidder 
 
After approval of the Committee on accep tance of the highest price bid, the Technically 
Qualified Bidder submitting such bid will be declared as the Successful Bidder (“ Successful 
Bidder”) via an e -mail (“Intimation”). The Successful Bidder will be required to make the 
balance payment as per the  schedule in the Tender Document. Date of sending the e -mail 
confirming the decision of the Committee will be considered as the date of receipt of the 
Intimation. 
 
2.14 Deposit of the purchase price and verification of Documents 
 
(i) The Successful Bidder should pay 25% (twenty five percent) of the highest bid amount 
within 7 (seven) working days from the date of the Intimation . It is clarified that, in 
case the Successful Bidder is the Technically Qualified Bidder who submitted the 
highest bid in the tender process, their EMD will be adjusted against the 
aforementioned amount.  
 
(ii) The balance (amounting to 75% (seventy five percent)) of the highest bid amount, 
along with 1% (one percent) of highest bid amount as ‘poundage fee’, shall be paid by 
the Successful Bidder within 15 (fifteen) days from the date of the Intimation.  
 
(iii) All the payments of the bid amount made by the Successful Bidder shall be made to 
the Committee’s bank account, (particulars of which are set out in Clause 2.7(i)),  and 
shall be intimated to the Agency via e -mail from the email ID used by the Successful 
Bidder at the time of registration, immediately together with the MR No., UTR No. and 
a challan copy relating to the said payment. The payments of the bid amounts shall be 
made by the Successful Bidder from the same bank account from which he has made 
payment of the EMD amounts. No interest will be payable on the amounts received 
from the Successful Bidder.  
 
(iv) If any amount required to be paid by the Successful  Bidder i s not paid within the 
specified time, all amounts paid by the Successful Bidder (inclusive of the EMD) shall 
be liable for forfeiture. 
 
(v) Once the payment (including deduction of TDS by the Successful Bidder, as per 
applicable laws) is made, the Successful B idder will be required to produce the 
originals of the documents uploaded under Clause 2.8(i) and letter issued by the bank 
--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 16 ---
Page 16 of 46 
(through which such Bidder has paid EMD and other instalments) authenticating the 
identity of such Bidder along with bank account statement and original TDS certificate 
for verification purpose. The documents may be produced at the date, time and venue 
communicated to the Successful Bidder (via email) by the Agency. For the purpose of 
such verification, the Successful Bidder/ the autho rized representative of Successful 
Bidder will have to be present in person during the verification process. 
 
2.15 Default in Payment 
 
Default of payment of the bid amounts within the stipulated time shall result in the following: 
 
(i) an automatic cancellation of the sale without any notice; 
 
(ii)  all amounts paid until then by the Successful Bidder (inclusive of the EMD), shall be 
liable for forfeiture; and 
 
(iii) offering the other Technically Qualified Bidders an option to meet the highest bid, and 
if any Technically Qualified Bidder agrees to the said offer in writing within such 
period as may be specified in the offer, said Technically Qualified Bidder shall, subject 
to approval of the Committee, be declared as the Successful Bidder via the Intimation, 
whereupon the conditions stipulated in Clauses 2.13 and 2.14 shall be applicable to 
such Successful Bidder: 
 
Provided that if two or more Technically Qualified Bidders agree to such offer as 
above, then the Technically Qualified Bidder whose bid was higher as compared to the 
other Technically Qualified Bidder(s) shall, subject to approval of the Committee,  be 
declared as the S uccessful Bidder via the Intimation, whereupon the conditions 
stipulated in Clauses 2.13 and 2.14 shall be applicable to such Successful Bidder. 
 
2.16 Confirmation of Sale 
 
(i) The Successful Bidder shall not have any right/ title over the Properties until a sale 
certificate (as per the format prescribed in Annexure 4) is issued in its favour by the 
Committee in accordance with the Order and Subsequent Orders. 
 
(ii) The sale certificate will be issued subject to compliance of all terms and conditions of 
sale, unless cancelled by the Committee for any reason, including as per applicable law. 
 
(iii) The sale certificate will not be issued pending operation of any stay/ injunction/ 
restraining order passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court / any other court having 
jurisdiction against such issuance. 
 
(iv) Any request for cancellation of the sale for any or all th e Properties or return of the 
deposit, either in part or full, will not be entertained. 
 
(v) Representations/ objections from the Successful Bidder would not be entertained at any 
time.  
 
2.17 Payment of Stamp Duty, etc. 
 
(i) The sale attracts stamp duty, registration charges, etc. as per relevant laws. 
 
(ii) All the applicable charges including stamp duty, registration charges, conveyance, 
government taxes such as Goods and Services Tax etc. as per relevant laws, with 
respect to the sale of Properties shall be borne by the Successful Bidder for transfer of 
--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 17 ---
Page 17 of 46 
the Properties in his/ her name.  
 
(iii) The payment of all statutory/ non -statutory dues, taxes, rates, assessments, charges, 
fees, etc., owed by the Company to anybody in respect of the Properties shall be the 
sole responsibil ity of Successful Bidder only. No interest will be payable on the 
amounts received from the Successful Bidder.  
 
2.18 Sale Certificate 
 
(i) The sale certificate will be issued by the Committee only in accordance with the Order 
and Subsequent Orders. Subject to sub-clause (iii) below, t he sale certificate will be 
issued in the name of the Successful Bidder specified in the Bid Form. Any request for 
inclusion/ substitution of name, other than those mentioned in the Bid Form, in the sale 
certificate will not be entertained. 
 
(ii) The sale certificate will be issued at the date, time and venue to be intimated by the 
Agency to the Successful Bidder (via email)  only after entire price bid amount is 
deposited by the Successful Bidder. 
 
(iii) In case any  of the S uccessful Bidder is  a partnership firm/  Consortium, the sale 
certificate for each individual property in the Lot (as defined in Annexure 1) may be 
issued in favour of any or more of the partners  /members of the Consortium  at the 
request of the partnership firm/ Consortium. It is clarified that partners of the 
partnership firm/ Consortium shall be treated as on the date of submitting the bid and 
no partner/ member added after the date of submitting  the bid will be entitled to the 
said benefit. 
 
(iv) Sale certificate shall be  collected in person by the Successful Bidder or through an 
authorized person. The Successful Bidder or the authorised representative shall be 
required to carry the required documents such as ID proofs, authorisation letter (if 
applicable), copy of mail, etc. along with them. 
 
2.19 Return of EMD 
 
The EMD of the unsuccessful Bidders will be refunded within a reasonable time after the 
declaration of the Successful Bidder for a particular tender  or cancellation/ annulment of the 
tender, whichever is earlier, subjec t to there being no event of forfeiture of EMD . The EMD 
will be refunded , without any interest, to the same bank account from which the EMD was 
received and the unsuccessful Bidders shall be intimated via their e-mail ID. 
 
2.20 Stay/ Cancellation of the Sale 
 
(i) In case of stay/ injunction/ restraining order passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court/ any 
other court having jurisdiction, the tender process may either be deferred or cancelled 
for sale of any or all the Properties and persons participating in the sale shal l have no 
right to claim damages, compensation or cost for such deferment or cancellation.  
 
(ii) Default in payment of 25% (twenty five percent) of the bid amount by the Successful 
Bidder within the time period stipulated in Clause 3.2 will result in cancellation of sale 
for any or all the Properties including forfeiture of the EMD amount. 
 
(iii) In case the Successful Bidder has paid the EMD amount and 25% (twenty five percent) 
of the bid amount (inclusive of the EMD amount) but fails to pay the remaining balance 
of 75% (seventy five percent) of the bid amount or fails to pay 1% (one percent) of 
highest bid amount as ‘poundage fee’ within the time period stipulated in Clause 3.2, 