
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
Page 1 of 92 
 
WTM/PS/30/CIS/NRO/AUG/2014  
 
BEFORE THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
CORAM: PRASHANT SARAN, WHOLE TIME MEMBER 
 
ORDER  
Under Sections 11 and 11B of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with 
Regulation 65 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Collective Investment 
Scheme) Regulations, 1999 
 
IN THE MATTER OF PACL LIMITED  
 
In respect of PACL Limited and its Directors, viz. , Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh, Mr. 
Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o 
P.O. Wazidpur), Mr. Uppal Devinder Kumar, Mr. Tyger Joginder, Mr. Gurmeet Singh and 
Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya  
 
Date of Hearing s: November 6, 2013, February 04, 2014, February 05, 2014, May 15, 2014 , June 23, 
2014, July 12, 2014 
 
Appearances: 
 
For PACL Limited, Mr. Tarlochan 
Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. 
Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata 
Bhattacharya 
: Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Senior Advocate 
Mr. Pradeep Sancheti, Senior Advocate 
Mr. Amrendra Saran, Senior Advocate 
Mr. U.U. Lalit, Senior Advocate 
Mr. Rajiv Nayar, Senior Advocate 
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Advocate 
Mr. D.P. Mohanty, Advocate 
Ms. Pallavi Sharma, Advocate 
Mr. Ankit Thakur, Advocate 
Mr. Amit Bhandari, Advocate 
Ms. Nandita Bajpai, Advocate 
Mr. H.K. Gautam, Advocate 
Mr. V. Pankaj, Advocate 
Ms. Meeta Sharma, Advocate 
Mr. Shashank Patil, Advocate 
Mr. Amit Pawe, Advocate 
Mr. Abhishek A., Advocate 
Ms. Prerna Singh, Advocate 
   
For Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo : Mr. S. Ganesh, Senior Advocate 
Mr. Ramji Sriniwasan, Senior Advocate 
Mr. Gaurav Kejriwal, Advocate 
Mr. Gaurav Choudhary, Advocate 
   
For Mr. Gurnam Singh  (R/o P.O. 
Wazidpur) 
: Mr. Gurnam Singh 
   
For PACL Customer Association 
Limited 
: Mr. P.H. Parekh, Senior Advocate 
Mr. Pavan Kumar, Advocate 
Mr. Vishal Prasad, Advocate 
Mr. Prithvi Pal, Advocate 
Mr. Bhairo Singh Rajawat, Vice President, PACL 

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
Page 2 of 92 
 
Customer Association 
   
For Securities and Exchange Board of 
India 
: Ms. Anitha Anoop, Deputy Legal Adviser 
Mr. Narendra Rawat, Deputy General Manager 
Ms. Jyoti Sharma, Assistant General Manager 
Mr. Pradeep Kumar, Assistant Legal Adviser  
___________________________________________________________________________ 
 
BACKGROUND OF THE CASE 
 
1. During the early nineties, several entities had started mushrooming across the country for 
operating financial scheme s in the market. Such entities ostensibly undertook plantation 
activities on commercial scale through various plans/ schemes and mobilized huge sums of 
money by issuing various instruments and offering plans with very high rates of return 
(inconsistent with the normal rate of return) in such schemes. The funds so mobilized were 
misutilized by such entities f or the purposes not disclosed at the time of inviting the 
investments. During the mid nineties, such entities started defaulting in making payments 
to their customers/ investors. T his not only caus ed huge losses to the investors who lost 
their life savings to such unscrupulous entities, but also erod ed the confidence of the 
general public in financial savings . It was noticed that the promoters of such entities had 
themselves invested a minimal amount in such ventures and raised a majority of the funds 
for the plans/ schemes from ordinary small investors. Considering the high element of risk 
associated with such schemes, the Government of India felt that it  was necessary to 
regulate such financial schemes and set up an appropriate regulatory framework for 
regulating such entities. Accordingly, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(hereinafter referred to as 'SEBI Act') was amended vide Act 9 of 1995 and the following 
was added in Section 12 thereof: 
"(1B) No person shall sponsor or cause to be sponsored or carry on or caused to be carried on any 
venture capital funds or collective investment schemes including mutual funds, unless he obtains a 
certificate of registration from the Board in accordance with the regulations: 
Provided that any person sponsoring or causing to be sponsored, carrying or causing to be  carried 
on any venture capital funds or collective investment schemes operating in the securities market 
immediately before the commencement of the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1995,  for which no 
certificate of registration was required prior to such commencement, may continue  to operate till such 
time regulations are made under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 30.]" 
 
With this amendment, a ban was imposed on  a person  carrying on any Collective 
Investment Scheme (hereinafter referred to as 'CIS') , unless a certificate of registration is 
obtained in accordance with the regulations framed by SEBI.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
Page 3 of 92 
 
2. In order to protect the interest of the investors and to ensure that only legitimate 
investment activities are carried on, vide press release dated November 18, 1997, the 
Government of India communicated its decision that schemes through which instruments 
such as agro bonds, plantation bonds, etc., issued by the entities, would be treated as 
schemes under the provisions of the SEBI Act and directed Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (hereinafter referred to as 'SEBI')  to formulate Regu lations for the purpose of 
regulating these C ISs. Thereafter, several press releases and newspaper advertisements/ 
notices were issued by SEBI from time to time in leading newspapers , bringing to the 
notice of the investors and the persons concerned, the v arious instructions issued by 
SEBI/ Central Government in respect of the functioning of the CIS. The press releases 
further stated that instruments such as agro bonds, plantation bonds should be treated as 
CIS, and are subject to the jurisdiction of the SEBI Act. More specifically, SEBI had issued 
a press release dated November 26, 1997, inter alia, stating that the regulations for CIS are 
under preparation and till they are framed and finalized, no person can sponsor any new 
CIS. It was further notified vi de this press release that the persons desirous of availing the 
benefit provided under the proviso to Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act, may send such 
information within 21 days. Thereafter, SEBI also issued another public notice dated 
December 18, 1997 and inter alia  directed the existing schemes to comply with the 
provisions of Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act and to send desired information to SEBI by 
January 15, 1998.  
 
3. Meanwhile, a committee was formed by SEBI to examine and finalize the draft regulations 
for CIS and to structure a comprehensive regulatory framework. It was in this background 
that the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations 1999 (hereinafter referred to as 
'the CIS Regulations')  were framed and notified on October 15, 1999 . Further,  the 
definition of CIS was also provided in the SEBI Act through insertion of Section 11AA of 
the SEBI Act vide the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1999 w.e.f. February 22, 2000. 
According to the definition, 'Collective Investment Scheme' means any scheme  or 
arrangement which satisfies the conditions specified in Section 11 AA of the SEBI Act i.e. 
(i) the contributions, or payments made by the investors, by whatever name called, are pooled and 
utilized solely for the purposes of the scheme or arrangement; 
(ii) the contributions or payments are made to such scheme or  arrangement by the investors with a 
view to receive profits, income,  produce or property, whether movable or immovable from such scheme 
or arrangement; 
(iii) the property, contribution or invest ment forming part of scheme or  arrangement, whether 
identifiable or not, is managed on behalf of the investors; 

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
Page 4 of 92 
 
(iv) the investors do not have day to day control over the management and  operation of the scheme or 
arrangement. 
 
In terms of the Section 11AA(3), the following activities shall not be a CIS: 
 
Any scheme or arrangement: 
i. made or offered by a co-operative society 
ii. under which deposits are accepted by non-banking financial companies 
iii. being a contract of insurance 
iv. providing for any sche me, Pension Scheme or the Insurance  Scheme framed under the Employees 
Provident Fund 
v. under which deposits are accepted under section 58A of the Companies Act, 1956 
vi. under which deposits are accepted by a company declared as a Nidhi or a mutual benefit society 
vii. falling within the meaning of Chit business as defined in clause (d)  of section 2 of the Chit Fund 
Act, 1982(40 of 1982); 
viii. under which contributions made are in the nature of subscription to a mutual fund; 
 
The term 'securities' in Section 2(h) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 was 
also amended vide the said Securities Laws (Amendment) Act,  1999 to include units or any 
other instrument issued by any CIS to the investors in such schemes  for the purposes of 
proper regulation of CIS and in turn to protect the interest of the innocent investors in 
such CISs.  
 
In terms of the Regulation 3 of the CIS Regulations, no person other than a Collective 
Investment Management Company which has obtained a certificate under the CIS 
Regulations shall carry on or sponsor or launch a CIS. This clearly mandates that only 
entities which have obtained a certificate of registration can offer or launch CIS. Further, 
under Regulation 5, any person who has been operating a CIS at the time of 
commencement of the CIS Regulations was required to make an application to SEBI for 
grant of registration under the provisions of the said regulations, within a period of two 
months from the date of the notification.  
 
4. In the meantime, it had come to light that  a company, namely, PACL Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as 'PACL' or 'the company) was running CIS and was one of the companies 
which had failed to submit the information/ details with SEBI in terms of the press release 
dated November 26, 1997 and the public notice dated December 18, 1997. In view of such 
default, SEBI v ide its letter dated March 04, 1998 , had int imated PACL that it was not 
eligible to take the benefit under the proviso to Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act  and 
therefore could neither launch  any new schemes nor continue raising funds under its 
existing scheme s. In the said letter, the attention of PACL was also drawn to the press 
release dated February 24, 1998  made by SEBI , which directed that the existing CISs can 

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
Page 5 of 92 
 
mobilize money from the pub lic or from the investors under their existing schemes only if 
a rating from any one of the credit rating agencies has been obtained.  
 
PACL vide its letter dated March 23, 1998 , replied to the SEBI and challenged the 
jurisdiction of SEBI , by stating that its transactions are in the nature of sale and purchase 
of agricultural land and thus outside the purview of the securities market.  
 
5. A Public Interest Litigation (hereinafter referred to as 'PIL') was filed before the Hon'ble 
Delhi High Court by one Mr. S.D. Bhattacharya against SEBI and Anrs. in the year 1998, 
bringing into light, the activities of various agro -plantation companies who had duped the 
hard earned money of several investors. The petitioner also filed an application for 
impleading 478 agro -plantation companies  in the matter . The Hon'ble Delhi High Court 
vide an order dated October 07, 1998 , in the said matter, inter alia directed all plantation 
companies, agro companies and companies running CIS to get themselves credit rated 
from Credit Rating Companies approved by SEBI, restrained such companies from selling, 
disposing of and/ or alienating their immovable property or parting with the possession of 
the same. The order also restrained such companies from floating new schemes to raise 
further f unds without the permission of the Hon'ble Court . As regards, the existing 
schemes, such companies were directed to strictly comply with the SEBI directive 
published on February 28, 1998 ( sic) (to be read as February 24, 1998) . The Hon'ble Delhi 
High Court  also allowed the application of the petitioner to implead the said 478 
companies as respondents  and directed that notices be issued to such companies by 
publication in the newspaper.  
 
It is pertinent to mention here that the name of PACL was also mention ed in the said list 
of 478 companies  which were allowed to be impleaded by Hon'ble Court . PACL vide its 
application dated December 08, 1998, approached Hon'ble Delhi High court for deletion 
of its name from the list of respondent s and for vacating/ modifyi ng the interim orders 
passed by Hon'ble Delhi High Court. Hon'ble Delhi High Court vide another order dated 
May 26, 1999 , had directed SEBI to appoint auditors for ascertaining the genuineness of 
the transactions executed by PACL. In compliance with the or der of Hon'ble Delhi Court , 
an audit was conducted and the report thereof was submitted on February 22, 2000 . This 
report, highlighted various deficiencies/ discrepancies such as the cost of the land was 
taken to be uniform irrespective of its location, hu ge commissions were being paid to 
agents by PACL out of the funds collected from the public, etc.  Thereafter, on November 

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
Page 6 of 92 
 
16, 2000,  the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi appointed Justice K. Swamidurai (Retd.) to 
physically verify the genuineness of the agreement to sell and the transactions entered into 
and also to supervise the registrations of the sale deeds. 
 
6. In the meantime,  SEBI issued letter dated November 30, 1999  to PACL , alleging that 
PACL was operating CIS, wherein the funds of the investors were pooled and utilized 
towards the cost of land, registration expenses, developmental charges  and other incidental 
expenses. Vide the said letter PACL was advised to comply with and abide by the 
provisions of the CIS Regulations. 
 
SEBI also sent another letter dated December 10, 1999 to PACL advising it to comply with 
the CIS Regulations by December 14, 1999. PACL vide its letter dated December 13, 1999, 
replied to the letter of SEBI wherein it inter alia was stated that SEBI has no jurisdiction to 
scrutinize its t ransactions. According to PACL, it mainly deals in the sale and purchase of 
agricultural land and development of the land. It has been said that it had discontinued its 
scheme numbers 10 - 27 as there were certain operational problems in running of these 
schemes. It has also been said that 8 out of total 1,941 customers had opted to withdraw 
from the schemes who have been repaid.  
 
PACL then challenged these letters of SEBI  before the Hon'ble High Court of Judicature 
for Rajasthan at Jaipur by filing a Writ  Petition, in December 1999 , claiming therein inter 
alia that its scheme do es not fall under the definition of CIS as defined under the CIS 
Regulation/ SEBI Act. Vide this Writ Petition, PACL also challenged the constitutional 
validity of the CIS Regulations.  
 
While the Writ Petition filed before the Hon'ble High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan 
was pending, SEBI vide order dated June 24, 2002, held that the schemes floated by PACL 
fall squarely within the definition of CIS as defined under Section 11AA o f the SEBI Act 
and required PACL to comply with the provisions of the CIS Regulations subject to the 
directions of the Hon'ble High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jaipur. 
 
7. On September 20, 2002, Justice K. Swamidurai submitted his final report statin g therein 
that the transactions entered into by PACL with its customers were genuine. Thereafter, on 
March 03, 2003, the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi modified its earlier orders dated October 
07, 1998, October 13, 1998, October 29, 1998 and allowed PACL to execute the sale deed 
in favour of the customers duly verified by Justice K. Swamidurai. The Hon'ble Court also 

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
Page 7 of 92 
 
directed that future registrations may continue after the same were duly verified by Justice 
K. Swamidurai. As there were no representation by S EBI before the Hon’ble High Court 
of Delhi, when such directions were issued vide order dated March 03, 2003, SEBI filed an 
application for modification/ clarification of such order of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi . 
The Hon'ble High Court of Delhi considered the application of SEBI and vide order dated 
May 30, 2003 held that " there was no adjudication of the status of the PACL India Limited. We 
clarify that neither this Court held PACL India Limited to be a CIS company nor it was held that it is 
not a CIS company. This would be for SEBI to decide and  our order discharging notice would not stand in 
the way of SEBI to so decide. With this observation the application stands disposed off."  
 
8. Subsequently, the Hon'ble High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jaipur vide its order 
dated November 28, 2003  allowed the Writ Petition filed by PACL. The Hon'ble High 
Court inter alia held that the schemes of PACL were not CIS as they did not possess the 
characteristics of a CIS as defined u nder Section 11AA of the SEBI Ac t and quashed the 
letters dated November 30, 1999 and December 10, 1999, issued to PACL by SEBI.     
 
SEBI preferred an appeal before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India against the said order 
of Hon'ble High Court . The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India vide order dated February 
26, 2013, set aside the order of Hon'ble High Court and ordered as under: 
"... ... . Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties, we are convinced that the order of  
the High Court impugned in these appeals should be set  aside and the proceedings dated November 
30, 1999 and  December 10, 1999 can themselves be treated as show cause  notices apart from 
permitting the appellant to issue a  comprehensive supplementary show cause notice to the  first 
respondent Company  within a pe riod of three  months after carrying out necessary inspection,  
investigation, inquiry and verification of the accounts  and other records of the first respondent 
Company. 
 
7. It is needless to state that the first  respondent Company shall permit the appellan t to have free 
access to the records and also the assistance of  the Auditors for carrying out such inspection and  
verification of the records. On receipt of the  supplementary show cause notice issued by the  appellant, 
the first respondent Company shall sub mit its reply within six weeks from the date of receipt of  such 
supplementary show cause notice. The appellant  shall also extend an opportunity of personal hearing 
to the first respondent Company wherein it will be open to  the first respondent Company to p lace all 
materials in support of its stand and also make its oral submissions. The appellant shall also furnish 
whatever material which it seeks to rely upon as against the  first respondent Company to enable the 
first respondent  Company to submit its reply  within the six weeks' time  granted to it. After the 
personal hearing is extended  to the first respondent Company, the appellant shall  pass orders within 
six weeks from the date of holding of the hearing to be afforded to the first respondent Company. The 
first respondent Company shall also  furnish its e-mail address, contact nos. and other  particulars as 
and when required by the appellant.  
 
8. We also make it clear that the appellant shall pass fresh orders as regards the business activity of 
the first respondent Company as to whether it falls under the category of CIS or not and depending 

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
Page 8 of 92 
 
upon the ultimate order to be passed it may proceed further in accordance with law . The appellant 
shall before taking any future action give prior notice to the first respondent Company.  
 
9. We make it clear that such order shall be passed by the appellant uninfluenced by whatever stated 
by the High Court in the order impugned in these appeals as well as its own earlier orders including 
its order dated June 24, 2002."[emphasis supplied] 
 
PROCEEDINGS  
 
9. In compliance with the aforesaid directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, PACL was 
advised by SEBI vide its letter dated March 18, 2013, to submit the email address, contact 
numbers and other particulars.  PACL vide its lette r dated March 22, 2013 , submitted the 
details of the contact person  to SEBI. Thereafter, SEBI initiated investigation and issued 
various letters to PACL , inter alia seeking the following information/ details ( since 
incorporation to till the date of respective letters): 
a. details of all schemes/ plans of PACL , soliciting investment from investors/ raising funds 
from the investors since incorporation, till date . The mode of payment ( installment/ lump 
sum) available to the investor/ customer for the said schemes/ plan.  
b. for each scheme/ plans of PACL, c opies of the minutes  of Board/ Committee meeting 
wherein the resolution was passed for raising funds from investors , tenure/ status/ terms 
and conditions  of the scheme s, a pplication forms , brochures/ pamphlet/ othe r 
promotional material circulated, circulars issued to the agents / agreements executed 
between PACL and its investor/ customer (highlighting the changes in the agreement, if 
any), year-wise q uantum of funds raised through the scheme/ plan  and n umber of 
investors/ customers (including the name, address, contact no. and identity proof ), the list 
of the r egistered office s and branch offices for the purpose of soliciting investment 
through its scheme/ plan, year-wise details of the n umber of agents/ employees d eployed 
for the scheme/ plan , details of structure of commissions/ incentives paid to the agents/ 
employees deployed for the scheme/ plans, etc. 
c. details of area, location and price of the total land acquired for the scheme , area of land 
allotted/ sold to the investors, number of such investors who have been allotted/ sold the 
land, details of the development and the sale deeds executed, copies of the sale deeds on 
sample basis, year -wise list of investors who were allotted land and who had received 
payment on maturity, list of investors who have defaulted in making payment 
d. year wise shareholding pattern of PACL, name of the promoters and directors, details of 
intimations of resignation of Directors to Registrar of Companies ( hereinafter referred to 
as 'RoC') 

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
Page 9 of 92 
 
e. the details of the total business activities of PACL including turnover, employees, total 
profit from such activities, annual report filed with RoC.  
f. sample copies of executed/ filled application forms, agreements, allotment letters, 
registered sale deeds and all documents concerning investments in the schemes, etc. 
g. list of customers who have opted for development of land on their own. 
h. details of development activities done by the company on the land allotted to the 
customers.  
i. the details (including name and address) of seller, power of attorney (hereinafter referred to 
as 'PoA') of the seller, buyer, PoA of the buyer for land in khasra no. 01/4 in Ottudanpatti 
village of Thoothukudi district including the location map/ land demarcation, copy of 
agreement, sale deeds etc. 
j. year wise details of the number of customers who were given compensation in the event of 
accidental disability/ death and the compensation disbursed, the number of customers who 
were given loan and the loans given, customers who did not av ail the facility of 
development with regard to sale of land pursuant to expiry of the term of plan. 
 
10. PACL replied to the letters of SEBI and submitted that it was incorporated with the name 
of Gurwant Agrotech Limited , subsequently, the name was changed to  Pearls Agrotech 
Corporation Limited, later the name was changed to the current name i.e. PACL Limited. 
It also submitted the following details/ documents: 
a. list of its office, corporate office and customer service centers, 
b. the details of the directorships of its directors, the addresses, PAN of promoters and 
directors, the date of appointment and resignation of directors, 
c. copy of the memorandum and articles of association, list of the key management persons 
of PACL. 
d. certified copies of balance sheets along with the annual reports for the financial year s 
starting from the years  1996-97 to 2010-11, certified copies of Income Tax returns for the 
assessment years 1996-97 to 2012-13. 
 
PACL also requested for time to submit the other information sought by SEBI on the 
ground that the records were voluminous and spread over several years. SEBI vide its letter 
dated April 11, 2013 , intimated PACL about the timelines set by the Hon'ble Supreme 
Court for the issuance of the supplementary SCN and also granted a week's time to submit 
the information as sought. Upon this, PACL vide its letters dated April 18, 2013 , April 26, 

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
Page 10 of 92 
 
2013, May 06, 2013, May 14, 2013 and May 17, 2013 submitted the following documents/ 
information:   
a. details of the shareholding pattern since inception , copy of the balance sheet of the 
company for the financial year 2011 -12, details of the shareholders of PACL as on March 
30, 2002, December 30, 2002, December 31, 2003, September 30, 2005, December 30, 
2006, details regarding the business plans of PACL s ince inception along with their name, 
closure, amounts mobilised in a tabular form, copies of r ule book along with subsequent 
circulars as amended from time to time , extracts of minutes of board/ committee wherein 
the business plans and its subsequent amen dment were duly considered and approved by 
the Board/ committee of PACL.  
b. sample copies of the application form, sample sale deeds executed in favor of the 
customers, a greement as amended from time to time  along with the copies of the 
agreements. 
c. list of c ustomers for last 5 years to whom land has been allotted, details of the advances 
received from the customers for the last 5 years, details of the total area of land allotted and 
number of customers for the last 5 year, year wise list of active customers w ho executed 
agreement with PACL, details of customers who opted out of the plot -buyer agreement in 
last five years and who preferred to receive refund of their consideration in lieu of land. 
d. list of customers to whom land has been allotted, details of adva nces received from such 
customers, details of customers who had opted out of the plot -buyer agreement and 
preferred to receive fund of their consideration in lieu of land since inception. The details 
were provided for the period since inception till 2006 -07, year-wise list of active customers 
for the year 2005-06 and 2006-07 who executed agreement with PACL.  
e. details of the persons employed with PACL , field associates engaged for the promotion of 
the business , copies of circulars issued to the field associa tes, structure of commission/ 
incentives, year-wise details of commission/ incentives paid to the field associates, details 
of the field associates since inception till 2006 -07, year -wise details of commission/ 
incentives paid to the field associates engag ed in the business promotion activities of the 
company since inception till 2006 -07, State wise details of land owned by PACL for its 
business purpose along with its holding pattern and price paid for the procurement of land 
effective from 2005-06 and 2006-07. 
f. list of customers' complaints, 
g. State wise details of land procured by PACL for business purpose along with the holding 
pattern and price paid,  

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
Page 11 of 92 
 
h. detailed note showing the basis of calculating estimated or expected value of land at the 
end of the tenure of the plan. 
i. tabular sheets showing month -wise status of customers ' land liability vis -a-vis land 
availability in acres owned by PACL  by way of sale deed, general power of attorney, 
agreement to sell , snapshot of land availability while booking of plots i n different State of 
the country. 
j. details regarding the projects and marketing materials published by the companies with 
whom PACL executed the development agreement/ project management contract  and the 
agreements 
k. year-wise number of customers who have be en given compensation in the event of 
accidental disability/ death and compensation disbursed, customers who have been given 
loan along with loan amount disbursed. 
l. year-wise details of the land procured by PACL through sale deeds/ GPA/ ATS/ associate 
companies from 1996-1997 till 2011-2012, land allotted/ sold to the customers from 1996 -
97 till 2011-12, customers who opted out from the agreement. 
m. valuation report of the land owned by the company in some of the States. 
n. copy of notice s published by PACL from time to time in the newspaper s regarding 
circulation of un-authorized documents in the name of the company.  
 
However, PACL failed to s ubmit the complete information in all respects as sought by 
SEBI during the course of investigation vide the said various letters.  
 
11. Thereafter, SEBI concluded its investigation and issued an SCN dated June 14, 2013 to 
PACL Limited and its directors namely Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh, Mr. Gurnam Singh 
(R/o P.O. Singh Bhagwant Pur), Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Nir mal 
Singh Bh angoo, Mr. Gurnam Singh ( R/o P.O. Wazidpur), Mr. Uppal Devinder Kumar, 
Mr. Tyger Joginder, Mr. Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya (hereinafter all 
collectively referred to as ‘noticees’) based on the material available on record. The SCN 
alleged that the features of the schemes/ plan of PACL are in the nature of CIS. 
Accordingly, it called upon the noticees to show cause as to why the schemes of PACL 
should not be declared as CIS  and appropriate action including directions under Sections  
11 and 11B of the SEBI Act read with Regulation 65 of the CIS Regulations, should not be 
issued against the noticees for the alleged violations. The noticees were advised to reply to 
the SCN, within six weeks (i.e. as per the order of Hon'ble Supreme Cour t) from the date 
of receipt thereof. It was also informed that in case of failure to reply, it would be 

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
Page 12 of 92 
 
presumed that they had no explanation to offer and that SEBI shall be free to take such 
action in the manner as it deemed fit on the basis of the material available on record.  
 
12. PACL vide its letter dated June 21, 2013 , requested for the cop ies of the statement of Mr. 
Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Rajeev Gupta and Mr. K.K. Bakshi recorded 
before SEBI  and the copies of '34' investors' complaints referred to in the SCN . The 
documents sought by PACL were provided to it vide SEBI letter dated July 03, 2013. 
 
As t he SCN issued to Mr.  Tarlochan Singh , Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh, Mr. Uppal 
Devinder Kumar, Mr. Tyger Joginder and Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o P.O. Sin gh Bhagwant 
Pur) returned undelivered, SEBI forwarded these SCNs to PACL, vide letter dated July 15,  
2013, for serving the same on such persons. PACL vide its letter dated July 18, 2013 , 
replied to SEBI and submitted that Mr. Devinder Kumar Uppal  and Mr. Anand Gurwant 
Singh had ceased to be directors of PACL since September 29, 1998 and September 16, 
1996 respectively and it is unaware of the present whereabouts of these two noticees.  To 
proceed with the matter, SEBI initiated the steps for substituted serv ices of the SCN by 
pasting it on the last known addresses of such noticees. 
 
As regards,  Mr. Gurnam Singh (P.O. Singh Bhagwant Pur) (noticee no. 3) it has been 
submitted by PACL that he was appointed as a director of PACL w.e.f. February 13, 1996 
and he ceased to be a director of PACL from January 07, 1997, on his death. PACL vide 
this letter also forwarded a copy of the relevant form 32, which was taken on record.  
 
13. PACL vide its letter dated July 23, 2013 , forwarded copies of the sale deeds on sample 
basis under 'cash down payment plan' (hereinafter referred to as ' CDPP') and 'installment 
payment plan' (hereinafter referred to as 'I PP') for its clients  to SEBI. As the documents 
were not legible, SEBI advised PACL to submit legible copies of such documents along 
with the reply to the SCN. 
 
Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o P.O. Wazidpur) and Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo vide their letters 
dated July 24, 2013 and July 25, 2013 respectively, replied to the SCN. The noticees PACL, 
Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gu rmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata 
Bhattacharya submitted a common reply to the SCN vide letter July 26, 2013 and requested 
for an opportunity of personal hearing.  The noticee namely Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh 
vide his letter dated August 06, 2013, intimated SEBI that he came to know that SEBI has 
issued the SCN to PACL and its directors including ex -directors and requested for a copy 

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
Page 13 of 92 
 
of the SCN  dated June 14, 2013. Vide letter dated August 08, 2013 , Mr. Anand Gurwant 
Singh, while confirming the receipt of the SCN, s tated that he would submit the reply 
within six weeks and requested for an opportunity of personal hearing. 
 
14. During the proceedings, one PACL Customer Association (hereinafter referred to as 'the 
Association') vide its letter dated July 17, 2013 , informed SEBI that the association was 
formed for the purpose of safeguarding the legitimate interests of the customers of PACL  
and was allowed to intervene in the writ petition filed by PACL against SEBI before the 
Hon'ble High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan an d in the Special Leave Petition filed by 
SEBI before the Hon'ble Supreme Court  of India. The Association requested to take part 
in the proceedings and requested for a copy of the SCN dated June 14, 2013 and the reply 
filed by PACL to it. It also re quested for making submissions before SEBI through its 
counsel, as and when the hearing is granted and also to make its written submissions. Vide 
another letter dated September 13, 2013, the Association informed SEBI that the copies of 
the SCN and the reply filed by PACL have been supplied to it by PACL and requested for 
intimation of the date of personal hearing and permission to make the submissions.  
Although SEBI did not provide  a copy of the SCN ( issued to PACL), SEBI vide its letter 
dated September 20, 2013 , a dvised the PACL Customers Association to file its 
submissions, if any in writing. In reply to the same,  PACL Customers Association through 
its advocate vide letter dated September 24, 2013 , requested for all the documents/ 
correspondence exchanged between SEBI, PACL and/ or any other persons.  He also 
requested permission to attend the personal hearing granted to PACL. 
 
15. In the meantime, PACL vide its letter dated September 09, 2013 , requested for an 
inspection of the documents. Accordingly, an inspection of the documents was granted to 
PACL on September 17, 2013.  
 
Before proceeding further, an opportunity of personal hearing was granted to the noticees 
on September 27, 2013 . M/s. Parekh & Co. vide letter dated September 19, 2013,  
submitted vakalatnama for th e noticees namely PACL , Mr. Sukhdev Singh , Mr. Tarlochan 
Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya and Mr. Gurmeet Singh and requested for an adjournment 
of hearing by four weeks for the reason that the inspection of the documents was carried 
out on September 17, 20 13 and the notice given is short considering the voluminous 
documents. Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo , vide his letter dated September 19, 2013,  also 
requested for an adjournment of hearing by one month on medical ground.  

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
Page 14 of 92 
 
 
The noticee , Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh, through its representative ' The Percept ', 
Advocates & Solicitors vide letter dated September 19, 2013, requested for an adjournment 
of hearing and a complete set of documents that were relied upon.  
 
The representatives of Mr. Gurnam Singh i.e. Rungta Asso ciates, Advocate & Consultants 
vide letter dated September 19, 2013 , expressed difficulty in attending the hearing on 
September 27, 2013 and requested for an adjournment.  
 
16. As the request for adjournment came from almost all the noticees, it was acceded to  and 
the matter was adjourned to October 18, 2013 . This time again,  Parekh & Co., (the 
representatives of PACL and its four directors ) vide letter dated September 27, 2013, 
requested for an adjournment for the reason of unavailability of the senior advocat e on the 
date fixed. SEBI vide its letter dated October 01, 2013, rejected the request of the 
advocates and intimated that as the matter is very old, it would not be desirable to incur 
any further delay in it. However, Parekh & Co. , vide its another letter dated October 03, 
2013, again made a request for adjournment. The request  of the advocate w as finally 
acceded to and the personal hearing was re-scheduled to November 06, 2013. 
 
17. The Association vide its letter dated October 23, 2013, intimated SEBI that i t has filed an 
application before the Hon'ble Supreme Court  of India, requesting direction to SEBI for 
treating the Association as a party to the proceedings and give it all the relevant documents 
and an opportunity to make oral submissions as well as writ ten submission. It also sought 
four weeks' time vide this letter for filing detailed reply to the SCN dated June 14, 2013.  
 
In the meantime, Mr. Gaurav Kejriwal , Advocate on behalf of Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo , 
vide letter dated October 17, 2013 requested for copies of the documents that were relied 
upon. To this, SEBI vide its letter dated October 24, 2013, informed Mr. Gaurav Kejriwal 
(the advocate for Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo) , Rungta Associates (the advocates for Mr. 
Gurnam Singh)  and The Percept (the a dvocate for Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh ) that the 
documents sought are voluminous and therefore these could be inspected on October 29, 
2013. Although, SEBI had communicated the schedule for inspection to all the said three 
noticees, however, on the date fixed , only Mr. Gaurav Kejriwal appeared on behalf of the 
noticee namely Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo and inspected the documents.   
 

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
Page 15 of 92 
 
18. The authorised representatives for PACL and its four directors  namely Mr. Tarlochan 
Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr . Subrata Bhattacharya, vide letter dated 
November 05, 2013, forwarded an affidavit dated November 04, 2013 of Mr. Sukhdev 
Singh, Managing Director, PACL, wherein, it was inter-alia said that during the course of 
investigation, while replying to one of the  question i.e. question no. 33, he had given the 
information on the basis of the period when the company was executing joint sale deed. He 
also stated in the affidavit t hat the correct position is stated in the common reply of PACL 
and its four directors n amed above, dated July 26, 2013 and reiterate d that the company 
does not enter into joint sale deed. It wa s further said that what was stated in the common 
reply to the SCN was correct and should be treated as his statement.   
 
19. On the date fixed for the pe rsonal hearing i.e. November 06, 2013, the noticees namely 
PACL, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata 
Bhattacharya and Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo appeared through the ir authorised 
representatives. During the course of person al hearing, the Association also desired to 
participate, although the notice for personal hearing was issued only to PACL and its 
directors. The Association was informed by SEBI that there is no SCN against it and the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court also had not mandated SEBI to afford any personal hearing to it.    
 
To this, the Association argued that it is an interested party in the matter and its application 
for implead ing itself was allowed by Hon'ble High Court of Rajasthan and the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court of Indi a as well. It also referred to the application filed by it before the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court for a direction to SEBI to treat the Association as a party to the 
proceedings and for providing all the relevant documents along with the opportunity to 
make submissions.  
 
Considering the su bmissions of the Association, and the 'no objection' from PACL and 
Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya  
and Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo (the noticees who were present/ represented in t he 
personal hearing), for allowing the Association to make its submission during the course of 
hearing and also to avoid any further delay in th e proceedings, the Association was allowed 
to participate in the personal hearing and instruction were given to SEBI for providing the 
copies of all the relevant documents pertaining to the matter to the Association within 10 
(ten) days' time. Thereafter, the matter was adjourned for further continuous hearing on 
December 20, 2013, December 23, 2013 and December 24,  2013. Vide SEBI letter dated 

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
Page 16 of 92 
 
November 13, 2013 , the Association was provided with all the relevant documents in the 
matter of PACL. 
 
20. In the meantime, the personal hearing fixed for December 20, 2013, December 23, 2013  
and December 24, 2013, had to be rescheduled due to certain administrative exigencies and 
it was suggested to PACL and its directors  that the matter could be taken up on December 
20, 2013 and December 21, 2013  instead. Upon this, Parekh and Co. vide its letter dated 
November 20, 2013, expressed their inability to appear for the personal hearing on the date 
suggested and requested for fresh dates in the month of February, 2014. Considering the 
circumstances and the specific request , the personal hearing was fixed from February 04, 
2014 to February 06, 2014. 
 
However, v ide another letter dated January 23, 2014 , Parekh & Co. again sought 
adjournment for the hearing scheduled for February 04, 2014 to February 06, 2014 citing 
reasons of non availability of the counsels appearing in the matter . This request of the 
advocates of PACL and its four directors was rejected and it was communicated that the 
hearing will be conducted as scheduled. 
 
21. On the first day of personal hearing i.e. February 04, 2014, t he noticees namely PACL, Mr. 
Tarlochan Singh, Mr. S ukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya and 
Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo appeared through the ir authorised representatives and made 
submissions. The personal hearing in the matter was continued for the second day i.e.  on 
February 05, 2014. Du ring the course of hearing , the authorised representatives of PACL 
and its directors namely Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh and 
Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya filed written submissions, which were taken on record. The 
authorised representatives present during the personal hearing were advised to submit  the 
following: 
a. the summary of the sale deeds verified by Justice K. Swamidurai and  
b. the complete case file/ set of documents (starting from the respective application forms, 
respective agr eements, respective details of payment made/ installment receipts, 
respective allotment letters, respective sale deeds, respective possession letters, etc.) in 
respect of 500 customers selected randomly, from the list of customers as submitted by 
PACL.  
 
For submitting such details, the authorised representatives sought two months time which 
was duly granted.  The authorised representatives also requested for one more opportunity 

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
Page 17 of 92 
 
of personal hearing in order to make submissions on the documents/ details to b e 
submitted. 
 
During the personal hearings on February 04, 2014 and February 05, 2014, the Association 
was also present through its authorized representative who made oral submissions  
regarding protection of interest of customers of PACL . The Association’s representative 
was directed to intimate SEBI, within one month  as to what 'protection' the Association is 
asking for and for whom. It was also directed to submit the details to show as to how many 
customers/ investors the Association represents and the ma ndate of such customers/ 
investors along with the necessary documents. The Association also sought certain time to 
submit the details and requested for one more opportunity of personal hearing in order to 
make its submissions on the documents/ details so submitted.  
 
22. The Association vide its letter dated March 04, 2014, through its advocate Mr. Pavan 
Kumar inter-alia submitted the details  of its 2,14,530 members and also submitted that in 
case SEBI concludes that the submission made by PACL are correct/ valid in law and that 
the transactions in question do not require any approval from SEBI, then the members of 
the Association would not be adversely affected . In such circumstances,  they will have no 
submission to make.  
 
The Association vide another letter d ated May 09, 2014, through its advocate , Mr. Pavan 
Kumar submitted an additional list of its 1,05,410 members. 
 
23. Vide letter dated April 04, 2014 ,  PACL through its advocate Parekh & Co. submitted the  
case details of 500 customers as  asked for during the pe rsonal hearing dated February 04, 
2014. Thereafter, a s requested by PACL, and its directors, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. 
Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya 
and the Association, a further opportunity of personal hearing, was granted to the m on 
April 09, 2014. However, Parekh & Co. for PACL and its four directors,  Mr. Gaurav 
Kejriwal (the advocates for Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo ) and Mr. Pavan Kumar  (the 
advocate for the Association) requested for rescheduling of the personal hearing to May 27, 
2014. Although, the request of the noticees was initially acceded to, SEBI thought it right , 
in the interest of expeditiously conducting the hearing,  to pre-pone the same to April 25, 
2014. The advocates for the noticees agai n requested for postponement of the personal 
hearing, stating the non -availability of counsels/ advocates . This time, the  request of the 
noticees was acceded to and the hearing was rescheduled to May 15, 2014. 

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
Page 18 of 92 
 
 
24. On the date fixed for personal hearing i.e. May 15, 2014, the authorised representatives of 
PACL, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, Mr. Gurmeet 
Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya and PACL Customer Association  appeared for the 
personal hearing and made submissions. They al so filed written submissions citing case 
laws, which were taken on record. During the course of personal hearing, the authorised 
representative appearing for the noticee no. 6 (Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo) was asked to 
submit certain details such as his age, profession, financial details, etc. Though SEBI had 
not asked specifically for the sample sale deeds as verified by Justice K. Swamidurai (as the 
noticees have already submitted the summary of verified sale deeds), t he representatives 
appearing for PACL, M r. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh  and 
Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya sought time for submitting  the same. The representatives of the 
Association also sought time for filing additional written submission and certain 
documents. Considering t he requests from all the noticees appearing and the Association, 
three weeks' time was granted for submitting the relevant documents/ written submissions. 
The noticees appearing for the personal hearing then requested for one more opportunity 
of personal hearing in order to make submission on the documents/ written submission to 
be filed by them. The request was considered and the matter was adjourned to be finally 
heard on June 23, 2014.  
 
25. Thereafter, written submissions were filed vide letter dated June 0 3, 2014 on behalf of the 
noticees namely PACL, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh and 
Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya . Vide another letter  dated June 03, 2014, PACL through its 
advocate Parekh & Co. submitted the details of the fresh funds mobilised as asked during 
the personal hearing dated May 15, 2014. It was stated that a total of ₹ 4069,60,19,306 has 
been mobilized during the period of February 26, 2013 to April 30, 2014 . Vide the said 
letter, it was also submitted that the details of th e fresh funds received from the new 
customers from May 01, 2014 onwards will be furnished during the hearing on June 23, 
2014. 
 
26. On June 23, 2014, the authorised representatives of PACL, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. 
Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya 
and the Association appeared and made submissions. A brief profile of Mr. Nirmal Singh 
Bhangoo was also submitted by his representative.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
Page 19 of 92 
 
During the course of personal hearing, the counsel appearing for the noticees  namely 
PACL, Mr. Tarlochan Singh  and Mr. Sukhdev Singh submitted that they want some more 
time to submit a proposal for refund of the customers' advance received by the company 
under the various schemes to SEBI and requested for an adjournment. The counse l 
appearing for the noticees namely Mr. Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya  also 
requested that they also want to make written submissions and requested for an 
adjournment for explaining the submissions so made. Considering the number of 
opportunities of personal hearing already granted to the noticees when they made elaborate 
submissions in the matter, the directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the matter and 
the admitted fact that PACL is mobilizing huge funds from the public, instead of granti ng 
another opportunity of personal hearing, the noticees were afforded opportunity to submit 
written submissions/ their proposal , if any. However, on the persistent request of the 
noticees for one more opportunity of personal hearing for explaining the wri tten 
submissions/ proposal, the matter was adjourned to July 12, 2014  for making final 
submissions. 
 
27. PACL through its advocate Parekh & Co. vide its letter dated June 30, 2014, submitted the 
details of the fresh funds mobilised during the period of May 01,  2014 to June 15, 2014. It 
was stated by PACL that a total of ₹ 295,17,89,039 has been mobilized during the said 
period. 
 
28. On July 12, 2014, the authorised representatives of PACL, and its directors, Mr. Tarlochan 
Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya and PACL 
Customer Association  appeared for the personal hearing and made submissions.  The 
Counsel appearing for the noticees namely PACL, Mr. Tarlochan Singh  and Mr. Sukhdev 
Singh submitted a draft proposal which was stated to be without prejudice to all the 
contentions and submissions of th e Company , in order to protect the interest of its 
customers and without getting into further litigation, the company submitted as under: 
i. PACL will discontinue all the existing schemes/ plan(s) which are subject matter of the 
present proceedings. No new schemes/ payment plan(s) will be launched in future. 
ii. As far as all existing customers/ agreements are concerned, the agreements of such 
customers will continue upto next five years or the end of their tenure. The Company 
will, as per the customers' choice pr ovide the land as per the schemes/ plan or return 
the money as per the customers' choice. 

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
Page 20 of 92 
 
iii. As such, agreements with customers will keep terminating based on the tenure of the 
agreement and PACL such that all agreements will come to an end at the end of five  
years. 
 
On July 12, 2014, the noticee namely Mr. Gurnam Singh also appeared for the personal 
and made oral submission on the lines of his written submissions dated on July 01, 2014.  
 
The authorised representative of PACL and its two directors  namely Mr. Tarlochan Singh 
and Mr. Sukhdev Singh requested for three weeks time for submitting the 'final proposal'. 
However, the said request of the noticees were rejected as the date of personal hearing was 
granted for submitting such proposal only. However, the no ticees chose to file only a draft 
proposal. The counsel appearing for the noticees again requested that in the interest of 
justice, they should be given time for submitting the proposal. On repeated requests from 
the noticees, I was constrained to give thr ee more weeks' time for submitting the proposal 
and further submissions, if any. I note t hat vide letter dated July 28, 2014, the noticees 
again requested for more time to submit such proposal. Thereafter, Parekh & Co., the 
advocates for the noticees namel y PACL, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. 
Subrata Bhattacharya and Mr. Gurmeet Singh vide their letter dated August 11, 2014, ha d 
submitted the proposal for repayment to the customers.  
 
29. At this stage, I note that a s the hearing notices  issued to  the noticee namely Mr. Tyger 
Joginder could not be delivered, SEBI issued a public notice on March 08, 2014, in the 
newspapers advising him to collect the SCN and attend the personal hearing in the matter 
on March 24, 2014. Mr. Tyger Joginder vide his let ter dated March 15, 2014, replied to the 
public notice and submitted that he had not received the SCN dated June 14, 2013 at his 
address. It was further informed that he came to know about SEBI notice from his friend 
Mr. Uppal Devinder Kumar (one of the no ticees), who sent him a copy of the SCN 
through an email. I note that the SCN and the hearing notices were sent at the very same 
address as mentioned in the letter dated March 15, 2014 of Mr. Tyger Joginder, however, 
the same were returned as undelivered. Later, pasting was also done at the same address.  
The same suggests that Mr. Tyger Joginder is intentionally not taking delivery of the letters 
of SEBI in order to evade filing reply the SCN or appearing for the personal hearing as the 
hearing letters issu ed for personal hearings on May 15, 2014 and June 23, 2014, were also 
returned undelivered though sent at the very same address. From the same, it can be 

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
Page 21 of 92 
 
concluded that the noticee namely Mr. Tyger Joginder  is not keen in participating and 
presenting his stand in the proceedings. 
 
The noticee namely Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh, has also failed to turn up for the personal 
hearings granted to him, he has even failed to avail the opportunity of inspection granted to 
him. From the same, it can be concluded that Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh is also not keen in 
participating and presenting his stand in the proceedings. 
 
The noticee namely Mr. Uppal Devinder Kumar, also failed to turn up for the personal 
hearing on February 04, 2014 and February 05, 2014. However, he vide h is email dated 
February 03, 2014 submitted that he was only a consultant with PACL for a period from 
October, 1998 to year 2000 and was never associated with the company as a director. It 
was also submitted by him that due to his advance age travelling is not very convenient. 
Considering the request of the said noticee, he was given one month time to submit his 
written submission along with the supporting documents, if any.  However, no written 
submissions were filed by him. 
 
REPLIES/ WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS 
 
30. The submissions of the noticees in brief are as under: 
 
- PACL and its four directors viz., Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Subrata 
Bhattacharya and Mr. Gurmeet Singh vide the ir common reply dated July 26, 2013  and 
written submissions dated February 04, 2014, May 15, 2014, June 03, 2014  submitted as 
under: 
i. Its business relates to buying and selling of agricultural land  including development of 
such land into cultivable land and providing other infrastructure on it . The transactions 
of PACL are similar to that of a builder or a developer of property. PACL is purchasing 
lands from its own funds  prior to inviting allotments for individual plots of land  and is 
adding value to the land through its development activities . Based on such land banks 
customers approach PACL through its agents for the purchase of lands . PACL has 
prepared different plans under which these lands are sold wherein the prospective 
purchaser would pay the price of the land in one or multiple installments. The sale and 
development tran sactions contemplated in the agreements entered by PACL with its 
customers are not a 'scheme or arrangement'. Further, the use of the words 'scheme' or 
'plan' by PACL in its handbooks, circulars, minutes or other documents are for the 

--- PDF PAGE 22 ---
Page 22 of 92 
 
administrative convenience as they help in categorizing the transactions between PACL 
and its customers on the basis of time taken for development, size of units of land and 
the method of payment opted for by the customer and these do not imply that the 
business of PACL involv es running of any investment scheme or CIS.  PACL has also 
said that the plots are not transferable till the execution of the sale deeds. No advertising 
is done for the sale of any of their lands, though, it has agents for the same. 
ii. PACL refers the land all otted to customers as units. PACL has till date introduced 67 
schemes. PACL's business model is not limited to simple trading in barren agricultural 
land but to provide significant value addition to such low value barren land by 
developing it into productive agricultural land.   
iii. The land is held by various associate companies of PACL under the terms and conditions 
of a MoU entered into with PACL. The consideration for buying such lands is paid by 
PACL and it also pays the holding charges to such associate c ompanies. Till date no 
dispute has arisen between PACL and its associate companies as the MOU provides 
adequate security and comfort to the customer that PACL can procure its associate 
companies to transfer the land to the customer without any delay. The ceiling laws apply 
to the holding of land by one entity and not aggregation of holdings by various entities.  
iv. PACL has not issued any instruments/ units/ security . Its relation with the customers is 
based only on the agreement and appended application form,  without the operation of 
any other external factor. The terms 'unit' and 'plot' refers to a piece of land to be sold 
to the customers of PACL and cannot be interpreted to mean that any securities were 
ever issued by  PACL to the customers.  No units or securities are issued to any of the 
purchasers. On execution of the sale deed, the purchasers are free to deal with the 
property and the ownership comes to vest in them coupled with possession.  The 
business of  PACL cannot be regulated by SEBI as the same is not in a business that 
involves or relates to any 'securities'. The application form, agreement , allotment letter 
and the sale deeds are for the sale of plots of land by PACL to its customers and the 
same do not create any marketable securities. As per CIS  Regulations the 'units/ any 
other instrument' of a CIS should be capable of being marketed on a stock exchange. 
The agreements executed by PACL are with regard to immovable assets and the term 
'units' used by it refers to fixed size of plot of land and he nce such documents can 
neither be considered to be movable assets nor are they capable of being listed/ traded 
on the stock exchanges. They are not 'instruments' or 'securities' deriving their value 
from underlying assets such as land, unlike the aforement ioned agro bonds/ plantation 

--- PDF PAGE 23 ---
Page 23 of 92 
 
bonds/ schemes of plantation companies. Therefore, the transactions carried out by  
PACL cannot be held to be securities as defined under Section 2  (h) of the Securities 
Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956.    
v. The agricultural lan d falls within the domain of the State laws and only States have 
jurisdiction in this regard.  CIS Regulations are not intended to regulate the sale and 
purchase of land. 
vi. The Dave Committee Report's mandate was to assist SEBI in evolving a framework for 
the regulation of schemes that issued instruments like 'agro and plantation bonds' and 
not the business activities relating to the development of land and agriculture activities.  
Due credence be given to the Dave Committee Report, while interpreting the provisions 
and determining the scope of Section 11AA of the SEBI Act and the CIS Regulations. 
Further the amendment for the inclusion of CIS units as a security was to regulate the 
then prevailing problem of plantation companies. 
vii. Justice K. Swamidurai  (Retd.) was appointed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi to 
supervise the land sale transactions of PACL . He had scrutinized/ supervised the sale 
transactions and also carried out site inspection s. Objections of SEBI before Justice K.  
Swamidurai were found untenab le. The report filed by Justice K. Swamidurai was 
scrutinized by Hon'ble Delhi High Court and the notice against PACL was discharged.   
SEBI has not filed any objection to such reports. Vide another order dated May 30, 
2003, Hon'ble Delhi High Court provid ed that the future sale deeds executed by PACL 
would duly be verified by Justice K. Swamidurai. The sale, purchase and development of 
land are fully validated by Justice K. Swamidurai in his final report dated September 20, 
2002, pursuant to the directions  of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court in the matter of S.D. 
Bhattacharya & Ors. Vs. SEBI, wherein he ha d observed that the sale and purchase 
transactions carried out by PACL are genuine.  Justice K. Swamidurai has submitted 
reports from time to time , verifying the sale deeds executed by PACL. The findings of 
such reports incontrovertibly established the nature of transactions i.e. the sale and 
development of agricultural land. None of the verification reports contain any adverse 
findings against PACL. The sale de eds were validly executed before the competent 
authority, to his satisfaction, after complying with all the necessary formalities.  
viii. PACL does not promise any 'assured return ' or 'profit' to the customer . There is no 
return assured to the customer on the am ounts paid. The amounts are paid by the 
customer directly as 'consideration' for the sale of land and development services of 
PACL. In the case of PACL, the land is already available for the purchase prior to such 

--- PDF PAGE 24 ---
Page 24 of 92 
 
sale made by PACL and there is no scheme or arrangement being managed by PACL by 
virtue of which the customers receive profits/ property. The customer is the sole owner 
of the land. It is often the case that the customer profits from the development activities 
being carried out by PACL. The profit s are natural consequence of owning the land, 
which appreciates considerably in value due to the extensive development services and 
good organisatio n. The 'estimated realizable value' is the price which the land will 
command upon completion of the developm ent activities. The customers treat such 
estimated realizable value as a benchmark at the time of sale to third parties. 
ix. Every transaction with each customer is a separate transaction for sale and development 
of agricultural land. The transactions under si milar property purchase plans have only 
the payment mechanism/ tenure of development/ unit of land, size as a common factor 
and it cannot be construed that these transactions are all part of a common 'scheme' of 
any kind. The monies received from the custo mers under similar property offerings are 
not 'pooled and utilized solely' for any common purposes. Each plot of land sold to 
customers is distinctly identifiable and the customer pays for purchase and development 
of such land. There is no common pooling o f funds being done to provide a group of 
customers with undivided and unidentifiable shares in a large tract of land.  Merely 
because PACL receives the consideration for development services prior to or while 
carrying out the development of land , there cann ot be an implication towards  'pooling' 
of funds within the context of Section 11AA(2)(i) of the SEBI Act. 
x. PACL does not have any entitlement to control / administer/ take charge of the 
property/ the monies paid by the customers. PACL is not in possession of  the land and 
merely has a right of entry to provide development services. Even the marketing 
services provided by PACL at the end of the development period to help the customer 
sell the plot, are only provided at the request of the customer . A customer is free to 
retain the plot of land or sell it by himself, as if he wishes. Therefore, PACL is a service 
provider, providing development services or marketing services to the customer in 
accordance with its contractual obligations and in no way 'managing' the property of the 
customer. The customer, at no point, hands over the management of his property, but 
merely conveys limited rights of entry to the same to PACL for the purpose of 
development in accordance with the agreement . There is no question of managin g any 
'contribution or investment' as the sums paid by the customers are simply the 
consideration for the land allotted to them and fees for development services provided 
by PACL. Therefore, the activities carried out by PACL cannot be construed as 

--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
Page 25 of 92 
 
management of either property or of contributions and investments. PACL is engaged 
in the business of 'developing' plots of land. PACL provides its services to add value to 
the land and to bring it into full use. For the purpose of carrying out the developmental 
activities, PACL accorded some level of discretion; however, this is not akin to 
'management' of properties.  
The prospective customers are made fully aware, either through PACL's agents and field 
associates or through the applicati on form, of the scope of  the un -severable services 
which are being provided to the customer. The customers are informed about the 
composite nature of the contract, i.e. transfer of title of a piece of land and the 
development of the land by PACL. The development and maintenance, for a certain 
period, represented by the tenure of the agreement, of such land, forms an integral and 
conjoined service offered to the applicant. As PACL has the expertise and experience in 
developing the land, it prefers to do the same without undue inter ference from the 
customers. The customers have the right to tender suggestions in regard to the 
development and maintenance of the land. 
xi. The property purchase plans bearing no. 10 -27 were discontinued with effect from 
December 15, 1997 due to operational p roblems faced by PACL in running the m. 
These facts have been judicially noticed by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in its order 
dated April 29, 1999 (in the matter of S.D. Bhattacharya Vs. SEBI ) and as per the 
directions of the Hon'ble Delhi High Court of Delhi, PACL  provided the customers 
covered under the said plan code no. 10 -27 with an option to withdraw and to take 
refund/ return of their monies. The majority of the customers opted to withdraw from 
the plan and were refunded their monies and the affid avit has been filed before the 
Hon'ble Delhi High Court in this regard. Further, the press release dated November 26, 
1997 was not a directive which was legally binding on PACL in any manner whatsoever.  
xii. PACL has submitte d the details of the active customers vide letter dated April 18, 2013 
and also information about the customers who had applied for purchase of plots under 
different payment plans vide its various letters.  
xiii. PACL only issues advertisements to furnish details of the company and its range of 
activities. The information regarding the plans of PACL are spread through word of 
mouth only. The 'rule book' was not promotional material and the same was merely 
used as an internal guideline for maintaining the procedure and the best practices 
method by which the business was to be conducted by the agents and field associates. 
The buy-back options, expected returns and aggregate expected returns are no longer 

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
Page 26 of 92 
 
part of any property purchase schemes offered by PACL. These may find mention in 
the 'Rule Book' of 1996. The rule book is no longer updated to reflect the current 
policies of PACL. It is an archaic document and is no longer in force. Instead, PACL 
uses the book 'Pearls National Network' which is an internal training program manual 
for the agents and field associates of PACL. None of the circulars issued by PACL are 
addressed to customers, they are addressed to functionaries within PACL, including 
regional managers/ divisional managers/ field seniors, etc. Therefore, these cannot be 
termed as marketing  document. It had certain packages for the purchase and 
development of agricultural land which are furnished to prospective customers to 
enable them to take an informed and conscious decision.  
xiv. The details in the agreement cum application are not inconsistent with the actual payment 
plans being provided by PACL  and t he application forms are common for all the 
payment plans. The customer, while filling the application form, has to specify the plan 
name and number. There have been absolutely no instances wher e a customer, after 
opting for a certain payment plan has been forced by PACL to follow a different 
payment plan. 
xv. On completion of tenure, the customer either retains the land or PACL attempts to 
facilitate sale of the developed land for the customer throu gh its marketing services, if 
requested by the customer. It has also been said that t he customers are not permitted to 
transfer any right, title or interest in the property before the execution of sale deeds. 
However, after the execution of the sale deeds,  the purchasers are free to deal with the 
property as they deem fit and ownership comes to vest in them coupled with the 
possession.  
xvi. The website of PACL was made functional from the year 2009 and since then it is under 
constant maintenance and upgradation. The allegation that the information on the 
website of PACL is an 'eyewash' is without any basis. 
xvii. PACL uses agents to carry out its business . Depending on the years of experience, the 
agents are entitled to various designations . The agent in turn engage s field associates 
who interact with the potential customers and explain the plans for purchase of land. As 
the business of PACL is propelled through word -of-mouth, it is important to 
incentivize the agents and field associates appropriately by way of commis sion. In the 
process, PACL often makes payment to the field associates directly as per the 
understanding with the agent in order to ensure that the field associates are not deprived 
of their commission, after deducting the requisite amount from the commiss ion paid to 

--- PDF PAGE 27 ---
Page 27 of 92 
 
the relevant agents. The large amount of commission , reflected in the balance sheet not 
only constitute s the commissions paid to the agents / field associates , but also other 
commissions paid in relation to the procurement of the land by PACL an d sale of 
spaces in residential and commercial projects developed by PACL in the ordinary course 
of business.  
The customer advances are mixture of two types of land link plans i.e. CDPP and IPP. 
On CDPP, it pays commission @ 10.50% to 12.50% of the total consideration paid by 
the customer depending upon the duration of the plans.  In IPP, it pays commission for 
customer advance received in various years on an average finally comes between 6.6% 
to 10.25%. Its total customer advances as on March 31, 2012 is ₹ 14,331 crores, out of 
this amount ₹ 11,719 crores belong to 1st and 2nd year of customer advances for which 
commission rates are 35% and 6.5%. The amount of ₹ 4,182.14 crore include other 
items like pre-paid brokerage, pre-paid expenses, rent advance, etc. 90% of the PACL's 
revenue is from the sale of land, flats, commercial space etc. It has other business 
activities like sale of farm produce. It has provided the customer advances and 
commission data as on March 31, 2012. The total customer advance and the prepaid 
commission upto March 31, 2012 is ₹ 44,736.23 crores  and ₹ 8,874.15 crores  
respectively. The calculation of percentage of prepaid commission over customer 
advances comes to 19.83% which is due to more weightage of 1 st and 2nd year business 
where commission rates are 35% and 6.5% respectively . The c ommission paid upto 
March 31, 2012 is ₹ 7,893.80 crores. 
xviii. The l and is allotted to the customer in the State of his choice on the basis of the 
availability. In any event the plots of land available are very similar to each other, being 
mostly pre -development barren land acquired by PACL. The non -availability of land 
suitable for agriculture, in view of rapid urbanization is a challenge and this is being 
addressed through acquisition of land in States where the rate of urbanization is 
relatively lower. It has also been said that a  person who makes substantial purchase of 
land, remits a significant amount and avails the development services, cannot be said to 
be finding it difficult to visit the plot of land so purchased.  
For the convenience, peace of min d and the sense of security, PACL requires the 
execution of a Special Power of Attorney (hereinafter referred to as 'PoA') by the 
customers in favour of a representative of PACL. The attorney is tasked with the 
completion of several time -consuming formalities on behalf of the customer and this is 
an added feature in the bouquet of services being provided by PACL. Th is PoA is 

--- PDF PAGE 28 ---
Page 28 of 92 
 
executed to provide certain amount of flexibility to facilitate the execution of sale deeds, 
especially in cases where the customer is not residing in the same State where the plot is 
situated. PoA form is part of the booklet containing the application form and 
agreement. The customer is at full liberty to not to execute the PoA and to actually 
present himself for the execution of the ag reement and for other formalities.  Due to 
large number of customers, PACL has not maintained the list of customers who have 
opted not to execute the special PoA. Identifying these customers would be extremely 
resource intensive and time consuming exercise. All the customers are provided with the 
option of not executing a special PoA and are clearly informed about this option.  PACL 
appoints an individual to go and execute sale deeds on behalf of the customers in a 
particular State for a particular period of time.  
xix. The practice of entering joint sale deeds has been discontinued by PACL since the year 
2000. The current application forms and agreements do not contain the clauses of joint 
sale deed. The customer may have undivided shares along with other customer s in a 
certain plot of land. However, the right of each customer are recorded in separate sale 
deeds and not in 'joint sale deeds'. It is possible to achieve 'joint holdings'  of land 
through single sale deeds evidencing title of each customer. All sample s ale deeds have 
an appendix which c ontains the schedule of property, map indicating boundaries and 
certificate evidencing no encumbrance. The plots are adequately described in the sale 
deeds in the schedules through written descriptions, description of the boundaries, 
survey numbers and/ or maps. Sale deed is registered in favour of the customer 
pertaining to his share in un -partitioned agricultural land and hence  the plot allotted to 
him/ her is surrounded by other plots. 
The clause relating to joint holdin gs with other customers has been inserted in the 
agreement keeping in mind the laws r egarding land fragmentation as applicable in 
different parts of India. It has introduced the concept of symbolic possession in order 
to ensure that PACL is able to carry o ut developmental activities prior to handing over 
of actual possession of the plots to its customers, upon the expiry of the terms of the 
agreement. PACL holds a first charge over the land, as security for the pending 
installments and other amounts due under the agreement from the customer. 
xx. PACL at all times maintains the list of active customers . It does not keep any record of 
the customers whose agreement tenures are over by virtue of expiry of tenure of the 
plan or termination by PACL or in case of optin g out by the customers itself  as 
practically it is not possible for PACL to maintain the data of all the customers since the 

--- PDF PAGE 29 ---
Page 29 of 92 
 
inception, more so for customers whose agreement tenure has expired.  Therefore, the 
company has provided to SEBI list of active cus tomers and those customers to whom 
land was allotted.  If SEBI insists that th e said information is pertinent, PACL would 
make best efforts for retrieving the details from old record  and requested for reasonable 
time. PACL has customers from all over the co untry. Further, it has also been said that 
there is no necessity for PACL to maintain plan -wise data. PACL had submitted the 
year-wise funds mobilized under various plans. The increase in the amount of customer 
advances is a result of the cumulative effect  of several concurrent property offerings 
schemes by PACL. 
xxi. PACL has provided SEBI with all the information regarding the application forms, 
agreements and amendments thereto. If any insufficiency in data provided exists , 
including minor details, the same does not indicate that PACL is  attempting to conceal 
any information or mislead SEBI.  A chart showing all the relevant chang es made in the 
sample application forms and agreements  has also been submitted by it . Sample 
application forms and agreements which f ormed part of court records till 2011 were 
provided to SEBI  on April 18, 2013 , as these  were dim , to make t hem legible 
highlighting was done in certain parts. The portions which could not be made legible by 
highlighting were overwritten. The legible/ clear copies as well as the typed copies of 
the agreements and application forms were again submitted to SEBI  on May 06, 2013 . 
As regards the corrections referred, the same were probably made and executed by both 
the parties at the time of execution. 
xxii. PACL in or der to discharge its obligations under the agreements, imposes certain 
reasonable restrictions  on the customer's right to create encumbrance, alienate or 
transfer the property in question. As a service provider with experience in developing 
agricultural la nd, it is the prerogative of PACL to determine the modalities of 
development and maintenance of the land in accordance with the terms of the 
agreement. There is  consensus ad idem, where full disclosure is made upfront to the 
potential customers. The customers have been informed of the composite nature of the 
contract, which not only carries with it the transfer of title of a piece of land, but also 
the development of land by PACL. The scope of the agreement is non -severable. The 
development and maintenance, for a certain period of time which is represented by the 
tenure of the agreement, of such land, forms an integral and conjoined service which is 
offered to the applicant. PACL is in better position than the customer to assess the local 
conditions and avai lability of resources, in order to make appropriate decisions 

--- PDF PAGE 30 ---
Page 30 of 92 
 
regarding the development and maintenance of the land.  The encumbrance, alienation/ 
transfer of the property may give rise to third party rights on such land and/ or lead to 
repudiation of the a greement with PACL by such third party etc. leading to a situation 
where PACL's position may be compromised. As per Section 11 of the Transfer of 
Property Act, 1882, any restrictions on transfer imposed on the customer in PACL's 
agreement to sell are not e nforceable under law . At most, a breach of such provisions 
could be construed to be breach of the contract with PACL. Further, the agreement to 
sell is not a registered document and hence any restrictions on alienation or transfer of 
the immovable property in the agreement to sell, is not a valid restriction under law.  
xxiii. After the expiry of the tenure during which the development of the land takes place, the 
customer is free to retain and enjoy the developed land/ transfer it to third party for the 
purposes of transfer of land to the third party and the customer may avail the marketing 
services of PACL, free of any  additional charges. 
xxiv. PACL has started providing its customers with the option to self -develop the land from 
2011. Prior to 2011, the business mode l of PACL did not permit self development of 
land by the customer . If the customers were developing all the plots, PACL would 
merely be engaged in the activities of land trading.  However, t he value proposition 
being offered by PACL lies in the development of the agricultural land, thereby 
increasing the potential sale price of the land manifold at the time of expiry of the 
agreement. The development charges forms a major part of the total consideration 
received from the customers, as the land initially is barren and a range of activities need 
to be carried out by PACL to make the land cultivable over the period of the plan which 
involves considerable amount of funds. 
xxv. The civic facilities for agricultural operations have been developed for the common usage 
of the plot -owners and are not a property owned in absolution by the respective 
customers. As per the 'principle of commons', the ownership of such shared property is 
beyond 'individual', 'private' or 'exclusive' ownership.  Its developmental activities 
catering to multiple plot owners are meant to develop and facilitate use of such essential 
common resources. All such facilities are freely available for use and enjoyment by the 
customer during the tenure of the agreement. 
xxvi. PACL is an aggregator of large land b anks and is in a position to fix the price of land 
units offered to their customers across the country at a uniform rate. It attempts to 
make purchases of similar land parcels (barren agricultural land) across all States and 
then carries out extensive development works across all its plots in an effort to raise the 

--- PDF PAGE 31 ---
Page 31 of 92 
 
productivity of the plots across the country to a uniform high standard. The valuation of 
the land when it is sold to the customer is based on the end product received by the 
customer upon expiry of the tenure and on the income that the customer can expect to 
generate from such developed land. With this, PACL is able to maintain a standard price 
for its plots of land.  
xxvii. The application forms and agreements for the last few years provide the custome rs with 
an option to select the State. The cases where the location of the land is required to be 
changed, the prior consent of the customer is necessarily sought and taken in advance. 
Even if, there is a change in the location of the plot, the customer wo uld have no cause 
for concern, as the land would be uniformly barren at the acquisition stage,  and similar 
development activities would be carried out thereafter to deliver a uniform product of 
arable land, regardless of location. 
xxviii. The title deeds pertaining to the sale of the plots would be kept in the safe custody of the 
trustee(s) appointed by PACL  for proper record keeping . A certified copy of the said 
title deed is made available to the customer and he/ she is also informed about the 
details of the trustee with a liberty to verify the title deeds during normal working hours 
on any working day , on furnishing a written request , 15 days in advance . In case of 
installment payment plans it is imperative to keep the title deeds till the entire payment 
has been made to protect PACL against any payment defaults. The customer is free to 
take the original title deeds into his/ her own custody after the expiry of the agreement. 
xxix. PACL pays all the government taxes and public dues during the tenure of the agreement 
on behalf of the customer, which is reimbursed by the customer on expiry of the tenure. 
The agreement as the one entered into by PACL with its customers is a consensual act  
in which the parties are free to settle on any terms as they please. Where a bargain in the 
form of legally sound contract has been entered into between two parties, SEBI being a 
regulatory authority has no locus standi  to challenge the validity or question its 
authenticity.  Each agreement between PACL and its customers (when the terms ar e 
complied with) is backed by the allotment of an identified plot of land and/  or sale 
deed. Each agreement, of varying development periods is genuine , backed by 
consideration for reciprocal promises and is not a subterfuge to defraud. SEBI cannot 
question the existence or adequacy of consideration or make it a subject of  adverse 
inference against parties to a contract.  
 
The authorised representative of noticee namely Mr. Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata 
Bhattacharya also submitted additional written submiss ions during the personal hearing 

--- PDF PAGE 32 ---
Page 32 of 92 
 
on July 12, 2014, which were taken on record. In brief the written submission were as 
under: 
i. The company acquires large parcels of land preferably non -cultivable and waste land on 
ownership/ leasehold basis. The land is the n sold to plot holders in varying sizes with a 
minimum of 150 sq. yds. The development work of land is undertaken on behalf of the 
plot owners for nominal charges. Once the lands are fully developed, the plots are sold/ 
transferred to the investors after t he payments is complete. The transfer is affected to 
respective owners once the entire land is developed, as State laws prohibit transfer of 
fragmented agricultural land holdings. 
ii. The plot holders are then at liberty to sell the plot of land to any third p arty without 
recourse to the Company. The only formality that the plot holder is required to comply 
with is to obtain a 'No Objection Certificate' in respect of the said land in order to 
ensure that there are no out-standings. 
iii. While relying on two legal op inions, it has been argued that the business/ activities of 
PACL did not amount to dealing with 'securities' in the manner defined under the 
Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 and in any event, the nature of activity/ 
business did not fall within the purview and definition of CIS. 
iv. Mr. Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya were appointed as directors w.e.f. 
February 01, 2009. Prior to their joining PACL, they had conducted adequate due 
diligence and with their understanding these were able to r easonably conclude that the 
business of the Company was not covered within the purview of the CIS.  The SCN 
dated June 14, 2013, does not disclose any involvement or complicity of the noticees in 
either sponsoring or in continuance of any CIS. Mr. Gurmeet S ingh and Mr. Subrata 
Bhattacharya cannot be held responsible in any manner whatsoever. The shareholding 
of Mr. Gurmeet Singh has varied from 0.5% to 0.6% whereas Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya 
did not hold any share at any point of time. They did not have any pecuniary interest in 
the company and were appointed because of their expertise and skills. These were mere 
salaried directors of the company and cannot be held responsible.  
v. From the order of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India dated February 26, 2013, it is 
abundantly clear that SEBI shall pass orders in two phases i.e.  
(i) whether the business of PACL falls within the purview of CIS or not; and depending 
on the out come  
(ii) SEBI proceed to take further action in accordance with law. 

--- PDF PAGE 33 ---
Page 33 of 92 
 
It has also been argued that prior  to taking any action penal or otherwise, SEBI has to 
first conclusively determine as to whether the activities/ business of the Company 
constitutes CIS. 
vi. Till the time SEBI does not come to a conclusion as to whether the activities/ business 
of PACL fall within the ambit of the definition of CIS, no examination can take place as 
to who are the persons responsible if at all for the sponsoring, running or continuance 
of the scheme. In order to fix responsibility on any person, it is incumbent that liberty 
be given to such person to meet the exact charges or role which can be attributed to 
such person in either sponsoring the scheme or the continuance thereof. 
vii. For fixing liability of a director not only a specific role has to be attributed to these 
directors but it is also to be shown as to how these directors were connected with or 
were in charge of the conduct of the business of the Company.  In this regard, reliance is 
placed on the order of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of National Small 
Industires Corporation Limited Vs. Harmeet Singh Paintal and Anrs. [(2010) 3 SCC 330]. These 
have also relied upon the order of Hon'ble Securities Appellate Tribunal in the matter of 
Ketan Parekh Vs. SEBI [decided on July 14, 2006], Vijay Remedies Vs. SEBI [decided on 
February 11, 2005] 
 
- The noticee namely Mr. Gurnam Singh vide his letter dated July 24, 2013 submitted that 
he was associated with PACL only for the period between January 10, 1998 and February 
05, 2009. During the said period, he never sponsored or caused to sponsor or carried out 
any CIS. He has also argued that vague allegations have been leveled against him in the 
SCN dated June 14, 2013. Mr. Gurnam Singh, in his written submission dated July 01, 2014 
stated that he is not aware as to when he was appointed and relieved as director of PACL. 
It has also been said that on receipt of the SCN from SEBI, he had called up PACL to 
enquire about his tenure as director.  He is n ot aware about the financials of PACL and 
have no involvement/ knowledge about its  business activity. Mr. Gurnam Singh also said 
that the earlier letter dated July 24, 2013 was forwarded by PACL to SEBI and he had only 
signed the letter that was drafted by PACL. Further, t he lawyer representing him was 
engaged by PACL and he had never met the said lawyer. 
 
- Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo vide his letter dated July 25, 2013 has submitted that he was 
associated with PACL for a short span of time i.e. from June 03, 1996 to February 03, 
1998. He never sponsored or caused to be sponsored or carried out any CIS and was 
associated with PACL only in the capacity of Non -Executive Director and his role was 

--- PDF PAGE 34 ---
Page 34 of 92 
 
limited only to the extent of providing valuable inputs to the Board of Directors on the 
issues concerning real estate sector of the Country.  
 
Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo vide his written submissions dated June 23, 2014, submitted the 
details as asked during the personal hearing on May 15, 2014  and submitted t hat he had 
started his career by working as an agent for the Peerless General Finance Co. Limited.  In 
the year 1983, he had promoted one PGF Limited and had worked as its Chairman cum 
Managing Director. It has also been said that due to his knowledge and experience with 
regard to agricultural land and real estate business, he was invited to join the bo ard of 
PACL as an Advisor. Thereafter, during the period of 1996-1998, he was attached to PACL 
as an Advisor. The SCN has been wrongly issued to him, as he has ceased to be a director 
of PACL in the year 1998 i.e. prior to the coming into being of the CIS Regulations. 
Further, it has been said that apart from being associated with PGF Limited, he trades in 
real estate in his individual capacity by buying and selling properties. He draws salary from 
PGF Limited and also earns living from the income derived f rom such trading of property. 
As per the Income Tax Returns for the last three assessment years i.e. 2011 -2012 to 2013-
2014, his average yearly income is about ₹ 10-11 crores per annum. 
 
It has also been said that h e was neither a party to the proceedings b efore the Hon'ble 
Rajasthan High Court nor before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and as such he was 
not aware of the proceedings before the two courts. He was also not a party to the notices 
issued by SEBI on November 20, 1999 (sic) and December 10, 19 99. Further, the SCN 
dated June 14, 2013, did not disclose any specific case against him. During his tenure in 
PACL, he was neither involved with the day to day management and affairs of the 
Company in any manner whatsoever nor has he sponsored or caused t o be sponsored any 
CIS. 
 
In order to hold a person vicariously liable as being a person who is either sponsored or 
caused to be sponsored any CIS, specific averments ought to be made against such person. 
He has relied upon the orders of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of State 
of Haryana Vs. Brij Lal Mittal  [(1998) 5 SCC 343 ] wherein the Hon'ble Court inter alia has 
said that the vicarious liability of a person for being prosecuted for an offence committed 
under the Act by a Company arises if at the material time he was in charge of and was also 
responsible to the Company for the conduct of its business. Similar view was taken by the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the matters of S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Limited  Vs. Neeta 

--- PDF PAGE 35 ---
Page 35 of 92 
 
Bhalla & Anrs. [(2005) 8 SCC 89] and State of NCT of Delhi Vs. Rajiv Khurana [(2010) 11 SCC 
469]. 
 
- Mr. Devinder Kumar Uppal , vide his email dated February 03, 2014 submitted that he 
was associated with PACL as technical consultant for the period of 1998 to 2000. During 
his tenure as technical consultant, he did not attend any meeting of the Board of Directors, 
and have not been associated with any policy decision of PACL. Hence, he had no 
connection with any of the matters mentioned in the SCN and is not answerable for any of  
the acts of PACL done without his knowledge.  
 
- Mr. Joginder Tyger  vide his letter dated October 28, 2013 and March 15, 2014, has 
submitted that he joined PACL in the year 2006 and had resigned from the Board of 
Directors in the same year.  During this per iod he had not attended any meetings of the 
Board of Directors and was not associated with any policy decision, transactions or 
monetary matters of PACL. He has no connection with any of the matters mentioned in 
the notice and is not answerable for any of the acts of PACL done without his knowledge 
and consent and requested for withdrawal of SCN.  
 
- PACL Customer Association  was not a party to whom the present SCN relates . 
However, for the reasons stated in the preceding paragraphs , it was also  allowed to ma ke 
its submissions before me. The  submission of the Association vide its letter dated January 
29, 2014, March 04, 2014  and written submissions dated June 04, 2014 are summarized 
hereunder:- 
i. The Association has a strong support of customers and many members  who have not 
joined the Association also take help and advice from it. The schemes helps middle class 
and lower middle class people to own a parcel of land is under the schemes of PACL, 
the customers can get agricultural land at a very reasonable price.  The customer engages 
the Company for development of their land in view of the considerable infrastructure, 
manpower, technical know-how available to it to develop the land. 
ii. Each plot of land, even where the plot is part of an undivided plot of larger land, is 
clearly identifiable by way of a schedule of property, description of the bounda ries, 
survey numbers or a map. Once the allotment is carried out in favour of the Customer, 
the land is completely transferred to him/ her and PACL has no title/ right/ clai m in 
the property. 

--- PDF PAGE 36 ---
Page 36 of 92 
 
iii. PACL has been regularly and diligently allotting plots in favour of its customers as and 
when the customer is entitled for allotment.  PACL also helps the customers who are 
interested in selling their plot in getting a prospective/ potent ial buyer. The Customers 
of PACL in general are happy and satisfied with the transactions in question and 
therefore their interest may be taken into consideration 
iv. The association has not received any complaint against PACL by any of its member, 
except some minor issues which have been resolved.  
v. Various transactions entered between the customers and PACL i.e. agreement, allotment 
letter and sale deed are legal transactions and they convey the proper and rightful title of 
the property in favour of the customers.  
vi. The Association is committed to work to safeguard and enforce the rights and claims of 
the customers, settle their grievances, mediate and settle the disputes with PACL, visit 
and watch the development of land, verify the genuineness of the title doc uments, 
giving suggestions on customer plot registration application, educate the customers 
regarding the brochure of PACL. 
vii. The transactions between the PACL and its customers are being examined by Justice K 
Swamidurai and their genuineness cannot be furth er examined by any authority. The 
agreement between PACL and its customers are purely individual and there is no 
requirement of any third party. If need be, the agreement between customer and PACL 
can be suitably modified in the interest of the customers.  
viii. There is no irregularity/ non compliance by PACL in the course of its business  and 
therefore the interest of customers requires to be protected by not disturbing the 
agreements executed by them.  
ix. Prior to the appointment of Justice K . Swamidurai, advertis ements were issued , letters 
were sent to the customers to the effect that as per their wish they could seek 
withdrawal or opt out of the scheme selected by them. Only 8 of the customers opted 
to withdraw from the scheme . The customers have confidence in  the business activity 
of PACL.   
x. Any direction issued by SEBI should be made applicable to the agreements which are 
entered into after the date of final decision by SEBI in the present proceedings.   
xi. In view of the order dated December 21, 1999 of Hon'ble Hi gh Court of Rajasthan, 
staying the operation of Regulation 69 and 73 of the CIS Regulations in the Writ 
Petition filed by PACL, the customers are continuing to enter into agreements in 
various schemes and new customers were being inducted from time to time.  

--- PDF PAGE 37 ---
Page 37 of 92 
 
xii. In case, SEBI comes to a conclusion that the submission made by PACL are correct and 
valid in law and the transaction in question do not require any approval from SEBI, the 
Association would not be adversely affected and therefore they will have no 
submissions to make. However, in case SEBI takes up  the view  that certain steps were 
required to be taken by PACL which have not been taken , then SEBI may make its 
order operative prospectively from the date of such order i.e. , the contract entered into 
after the final order passed by SEBI.     
xiii. The customers have invested their hard earned money and they are getting the fruits of 
appreciation of the value of the land and they would prefer to continue with the 
agreements which were contracted by them from time to time.  
xiv. It has requested to hold the transactions entered into by the customers with PACL is in 
accordance with law and enforceable by the members of the Association. If any 
irregularity is there in the transactions entered into, the same be regularized  either 
unconditionally or on such reasonable terms as may be deemed necessary. 
xv. It has also been said that t he interest of the members of the Association and similarly 
situated customers deserves to be protected as they have bonafidely entered into the 
agreements with PACL and directions may be issued that agreements entered into till 
the date of decision in the present matter should be upheld as valid and should be 
protected till completion of all rights and liabilities are fulfilled. 
xvi. It also requested tha t i f it is held that any approvals were necessary, then the said 
approvals may be given retrospectively from the date the agreements.  In the alternative, 
SEBI may make its order applicable in respect of agreements which will be entered into 
after the date of decision of SEBI and to declare that all agreements entered into till the 
date of the decision of SEBI shall remain valid, legal and enforceable by the customers. 
 
CONSIDERATION OF ISSUES 
 
31. I have considered the SCN issued to PACL and the other noticees, the oral and written 
submissions made by PACL, the documents furnished by PACL and the material available 
on record. The main allegation as against PACL is that the plans/ schemes operated by it 
are in the nature of CIS and that PACL  is offering these CISs without obtaining 
registration from SEBI for carrying on or launching such CISs in contravention of the 
provisions of Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act and Regulation 3 of the CIS Regulations read 
with Section 11AA of the SEBI Act . The directors of  PACL, b oth present and past have 

--- PDF PAGE 38 ---
Page 38 of 92 
 
also been alleged to be responsible for the conduct of the business of  PACL  which is in 
violation of the aforesaid provisions.  
 
32. Before proceeding with the merits of the case, let me address the preliminary objection 
taken by PACL, that the business of PACL cannot be regulated by SEBI as it is not relating 
to any 'securities'  as defined in Section 2(h) of the Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 
1956. It has been argued that the SEBI Act and the regulations made thereunder deal w ith 
securities which are marketable on securities market  and relates only to movable assets 
such as shares, bonds, derivatives, units of mutual fund scheme , etc. and the same can 
never relate to the immovable assets. The sale/ title deeds transferring the plots of land, the 
development and maintenance agreements cannot be considered to be 'securities' as these 
are not capable of being marketed on any stock exchange or other securities market. It has 
been said that such documents issued to the customers are not instruments deriving their 
value from the underlying assets. The agreements executed by PACL are with regard to 
immovable assets and the term 'units' used by it refers to fixed size of plot of land , such 
documents can neither be considered to be movabl e assets nor are they capable of being 
listed/ traded on the stock exchanges. PACL has also argued that CIS Regulations are not 
intended to regulate the sale and purchase of land. The entry 18 of List II under the 7 th 
Schedule of the Constitution of India read with Article 246(3) thereof (which gives the 
State, the exclusive powers to legislate over all matters enumerated under List II), 
demonstrates that the power to make laws relating to land (especially agricultural land), lies 
with the State. The extent  to which SEBI and CIS Regulations seek to regulate PACL's 
arrangements which involve transfer of agricultural land to the customers by PACL and the 
development of such lands, are ultra vires  the Constitution of India.  While making such 
submission, the cou nsel appearing for PACL also relied upon the order of Hon'ble 
Bombay High Court in the matter of Norman J. Hamilton & Anrs. Vs. Umedbhai S. Patel  & 
Ors. [1979 (81) BOMLR 340]. 
 
I have considered such contentions. Before proceeding, the relevant provisions of the 
SEBI Act are required to be discussed in brief.  Section 11(1) of the SEBI Act and its 
preamble spell out the duty of SEBI to protect the interests of investors in securities,  to 
promote the development of securities market, to regulate the securitie s market. Section 
11(2)(c) of the SEBI Act empowers SEBI to inter alia register and regulate the working of 
CISs. Section 11AA of the SEBI Act provides the definition of 'collective investment 
scheme'. In terms of Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act, 1992 , no 'person' shall sponsor or 

--- PDF PAGE 39 ---
Page 39 of 92 
 
cause to be sponsored or cause to be carried on a CIS unless he obtains a certificate of 
registration from the Board in accordance with the Regulations. I note that the word 
'securities' as defined in Section 2(1)(i) of the SEBI Ac t read with Section 2(h)(ib) of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, includes ' units or any other instrument'  issued by 
any 'collective investment scheme' to the investors in such schemes. 
 
SEBI has framed the CIS Regulations to regulate the ac tivities of CISs, in exercise of the 
powers conferred under Sections 30 and 11 of the SEBI Act ,. Regulation 3 of the CIS 
Regulations provides that no person other than a Collective Investment Management 
Company which has obtained a certificate under the sa id regulations shall carry on or 
sponsor or launch a CIS. Therefore, the launching/ floating any 'collective investment 
scheme' by any person without obtaining a certificate of registration in terms of the 
provisions of the CIS Regulations is in contravent ion of Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act 
and Regulation 3 of the CIS Regulations. The SCN, has alleged that the schemes/ plan of 
PACL are prima facie in the nature of CIS, however, it has not complied with the applicable 
provisions of SEBI Act and CIS Regulat ions. In view of the above, the argument s of 
PACL are without any merit. 
 
In addition to the above, I refer to the judgment of Hon'ble High Court of Punjab and 
Haryana in the matter of P.G.F. Limited Vs. Union of India & Anrs.  
[MANU/PH/0314/2004], wherein, under similar facts and circumstances as th at of  
present case, the Hon'ble High Court held that  the Section 11AA and CIS Regulations 
were intended for 'investor protection' and the same f alls within the residuary clause i .e., 
Entry 97 of the Union List under the 7 th Schedule of the Constitution of India . The 
relevant extract of order has been brought out below: 
"90. The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioners, to the effect, tha t the activity of the 
PGFL i.e. sale and purchase of agricultural  land and/or development of agricultural land cannot be 
regulated by a legislation enacted by Parliament, as it covers a subject enumerated under the State 
List, is in our view based on a misconceived foundation. The pith and substance rule is relatable to  
the objects and reasons of a legislation, and not to the activities of a party. The activities of a party 
are totally irrelevant, to the applicability, of the pith and substance rule. Stated in other words, while 
examining the issue of legislative jurisdi ction, it is the pith and substance of the legislation, and not 
the pith and substance of the activities of a party, which are relevant. In drawing our conclusion, 
therefore the relevant question to be examined would be, whether the pith and substance of t he 
legislation under challenge is "investor protection", and sale and purchase of agricultural land is an 
activity ancillary thereto; or whether, the pith and substance of the legislation under challenge, is sale 
and purchase of agricultural land and 'inve stor protection' is ancillary thereto. In answering the 
aforesaid quarry, the conclusion undoubtedly is in favour of the former i.e., the pith and substance of 
the legislation in question is "investor protection", whereas sale and purchase of agricultural land 
and/or development of agricultural land is incidental thereto. According to the decision rendered by 

--- PDF PAGE 40 ---
Page 40 of 92 
 
the Apex Court in McDowell & Co. case (supra) an incidental trenching, beyond the competence of 
the concerned legislating body, does not amount to enc roaching upon the field reserved for the other 
body. It will also the relevant to note that in D.H. Nazareth's case (supra) the Supreme Court 
repelled a contention, similar to the one raised in the instant case, by holding that the Gift Tax Act, 
1958 did not transgress into the subject matter covered by Entry 18 of the State List, as the object of 
the legislation was levy of gift tax i.e., an object which had no relevance to the aforesaid entry. The 
same position was expressed by the Apex Court in respect o f Entry 18 of the State List in 
Harbhajan Singh Dhillon's case (supra) wherein it was concluded that Entry 18 of the State List 
was not relatable to the pith and substance of the Wealth Tax Act, 1957. It would be pertinent to 
mention, that in both the case s referred to above, as is clear from the factual/contextual narration 
recorded above (in reference to the aforesaid two eases), the legislations in question incidentally 
trespassed into the subject -matter covered by Entry 18 to the State List. In the afor esaid view of the 
matter, there can be no manner of doubt, that the pith and substance of the subject -matter of the 
legislation in hand docs not fall under Entry 18 of the State List.  
 
91. For the same reasons, as have been noticed hereinabove (in respect  to Entry 18 of the State 
List), Entries 82, 86, 87 and 88 of the Union List and Entries 6 and 7 of the Concurrent List, 
which were relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioners, would be irrelevant for the 
determination of the issue in hand.  
 
92. The contention of the learned counsel for the respondent to the effect, that the subject of the 
legislation in question falls within the residuary clause i.e., Entry 97 of the Union List, in our view 
merits acceptance. We have concluded, hereinabove, tha t the pith and substance of the Legislature in 
question does not fall under the subject covered by Entry 18 of the State List. It is not the case of the 
learned counsel for the petitioners that the subject of "investor protection" falls in any other Entry 
under the State List. Therefore, in view of the legal position laid down by the Supreme Court in the 
decision rendered in Harbhajan Singh Dhillon's case (supra), Kartar Singh 's case (supra) and 
Naga Peoples Movement of Human Rights case (supra), namely, t hat in ease the subject -matter of 
legislation docs not fall in any entry under the State List, Parliament alone will have the authority to 
legislate thereon. Since no Entry under the State List and the Concurrent List in the Seventh 
Schedule of the Constit ution of India, relates to the subject of "investor protection", we find the 
ascertion on behalf of respondent No. 1, to the effect that Parliament had the right to legislate on the 
subject in hand, under Article 248 of the Constitution of India, read with  Entry 97 of the Union 
List in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution,  because Entries 1 to 96 of the Union List also do 
riot cover the instant subject of legislation.  
 
93. In view of the conclusions recorded hereinabove, we find no merit in the content ion of the learned 
counsel for the PGFL on the issue of vires of Section 11AA of the SEBI Act. " [Emphasis 
supplied] 
 
The petitioners in t he above referred matter had challenged the findings of Hon'ble High 
Court before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India by filing a civil appeal. Hon'ble Supreme 
Court while deciding the appeal in the matter of P.G.F. Limited & Ors. Vs. Union of India and 
Anrs. [(2013) AIR SCW 2420] observed as under:  
"43. By no stretch of imagination the above factors, which weighed with th e Parliament to introduce 
Section 11AA can be held to be done with a view to affect any particular category of business activity 
much less the activity of agriculture... ... .... In the light of our above conclusions on this ground it will 
have to be held that Section 11AA is a valid provision, not suffering from any infirmity, as it does 
not intrude into the specific activities of sale of agricultural land and its development. In other words, 

--- PDF PAGE 41 ---
Page 41 of 92 
 
there is no scope to apply Entry 18 of List II of Seventh Schedu le in order to strike down the said 
provision on the ground of legislative competence. 
... 
... 
53. We, therefore, hold that Section 11AA of the SEBI Act is constitutionally valid. We also hold 
... ... the sale and development of agricultural land squarely falls within the definition of collective 
investment scheme under Section 2(ba) read along with Section 11AA (ii) of the SEBI Act and 
consequently the order of the second respondent dated 06.12.2002 is perfectly justified and there is no 
scope to interfere with the same." [Emphasis supplied] 
 
In view of the above, it is clear that PACL would be amenable to the jurisdiction of SEBI , 
if it is determined that its schemes are in nature of CIS as defined under Section 11AA of 
the SEBI Act.  
 
33. Having considered th e preliminary objections, now, I proceed further to consider the 
primary issue that arises in the present matter  i.e., Whether PACL is operating a CIS 
without obtaining registration from SEBI? 
 
34. Whether PACL is operating a CIS without obtaining registration from SEBI? 
 
a. I note that PACL was initially incorporated as Gurwant Agrotech Limited on February 13, 
1996. The name was changed to Pearls Agrotech Corporation Limited and then to PACL 
India Limited. Finally on October 12, 2011, the name of the company was changed to the 
present name i.e. PACL Limited. As per the Memorandum of Association of  PACL, the 
main objects of the company, inter-alia, are as under: 
"... ... . 
2. To act as agents for purchasing, selling and letting on hire, land whether agricultural o r otherwise 
and houses whether multistoryed commercial land/ or residential buildings on commission basis and 
to execute the business in joint ventures with any companies or any other agency in India or abroad.  
... ... . 
5. To purchase, take on lease or otherwise acquire any land (including waste land, barren land , etc.) 
or plantations of afforestation estates and to work, develop and to maintain the same on their own 
and on behalf of others and to subdivide the land into units or marketable lots or in any  manner 
whatsoever either in its prepared or raw state and to sell, lease out or otherwise dispose of any land 
(including waste land or barren land etc.) developed lands, estates to any persons including tridical 
persons, firms, companies in any quantum or  in any marketable lots or units or in any manner 
whatsoever.  
... ... . 
7. To acquire, construct, develop, utilize, grow, plant, cultivate, produce and to exploit any estate or 
land, know-how for agriculture, floriculture, plantation, drip irrigation, tissue culture, sericulture and 
farming purposes and industrial projects advertisement to carry on business as producers, planters, 
growers, cultivators, traders, dealers and sellers, importers, contract farmers, agents, consultants, store 
keepers and distrib utors, importers and exporters for any ordinary o r specialized floricultural, 
agricultural, horticultural, tissue -cultural, sericulture dairies and agro industrial products and 
commodities, including flowers, fruits, orchards, vegetables, food grains, puls es, seeds, cash crops, 

--- PDF PAGE 42 ---
Page 42 of 92 
 
cereal products, flora, ornamental plants, herbs, medicinal aromatic and other plants, producers  
whatsoever and fishing and manufacturer or drinks, aerated mineral water, alcoholic or otherwise 
including beverages produced from such products or otherwise. 
 
8. To carry on the business of cultivators, growers, crop developer, manufacturers, estate owners, 
planters, millers, grinders, rollers, processors, cold stores, canners and preserves and dealers of food 
grains live stock and other  agricultural, dairy horticulture and pou ltry products, vegetables, herbs, 
medicines, flowers, drinks, fluids, gases and fresh and preservable products. 
... ... ."  
 
A reading of the main, t he incidental or ancillary objects and other objects as stated in the 
Memorandum of Association shows that the same are very vast and covers almost all kinds 
of business activities. As far as the present case is concerned, I note that PACL in its reply 
has submitted that its business is similar to a builder/ developer of  a property i.e., buying 
and selling of the agricultural land and development of such land into cultivable one. PACL 
has strenuously argued that it is not engaged in the business of CIS.  
 
b. PACL has further submitted that i t acquires the  barren land through its agents/ 
representatives from the land owners on payment of the due consideration. It has an 
admitted arrangement/ understanding with its associate companies by which it exercises 
the exclusive rights to develop the land owned by such associate compani es and require 
them to transfer such land to its customers as and when requested. According to PACL, 
either on its own or through the aforesaid arrangement / understanding with its associate 
companies, it has ownership/ control over the land banks in several States across India. 
 
It has been s aid by PACL that a ll the business transaction s between PACL and its 
customers are by way of independent agreement s for purchase of land / plot and 
development of the same during the tenure of the agreement s. Once the all otment is 
carried out in favour of the customer, the land is completely transferred to the customer 
and PACL has no title/ right/ claim in the property. As per the submission s of PACL, it 
transfers the land by executing the sale deeds in favour of its customers in conformity with 
the relevant provisions of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and 
Indian Registration Act, 1908. It has also been said that e ach plot of land, even where the 
plot is part of an undivided plot of larger land,  is clearly identified by way of a schedule of 
property, a description of the boundaries, survey numbers or a map.  The only right that 
PACL retains is the right to enter the property in order to develop it, if the customer 
requests PACL.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 43 ---
Page 43 of 92 
 
According to PACL, the customers engage it for the development of land in view of its 
infrastructure, manpower, technical know-how to develop the land and the confidence due 
to the track record of PACL in providing highly productive and profitable developed plots 
of land as per the terms of the agreements.  PACL inter alia puts in considerable efforts i.e. 
by renewing the top soil layer , testing the soil  and water that drains over such soil , using a 
mix of fertilizers suitable for the soil and crops , mulching and planting t he right mix of 
crops over a few crop cycles in order to ensure that the soil regains sufficient nutrients to 
support agriculture , implementing various irrigation methods depending on the water 
requirement, arranging electricity to the land/ plots in order to ensure that the common 
facilities which run on electricity can be utilized properly , etc. PACL has argued that such 
development activities require considerable amount of time and on the basis of it , the 
tenure of the agreements are entered into with th e customers. On expiry of the tenure , 
during which development of the land takes place, the customer is free to either retain and 
enjoy the developed land or transfer it to a third party. For the purpose of transfer of land 
to a third party , the customer can avail the marketing services of  PACL  for identifying a 
third party purchaser, free of any additional charges.  
 
c. Let me examine in seriatim the schemes/ plans operated by PACL, the documents executed 
by PACL to its customers (like application form, agre ement, registration letter, allotment 
letter, receipt, special power of attorney, sale deed, etc.), the complete case file/ set of 
documents of 500 customers selected on sample basis, the reports submitted by Justice K. 
Swamidurai, the sale deeds executed by PACL, etc. 
 
d. Schemes/ Plans operated by PACL : I note that PACL is continuing with its business 
activity since the year 1996. It has floated various schemes/ plans as detailed hereunder: 
Table - A 
S. No. Name/ Plan code Date of inception Date of closure 
1 Plan Code 1 to 3 30/05/1996 30/09/2002 
2 Plan Code 4 to 9 30/05/1996 30/09/2002 
3 Plan Code 10 to 27 30/05/1996 15/12/1997 
4 Plan Code 28 to 33 01/10/2002 - 
5 Plan Code 34 to 41 01/10/2002 - 
6 Plan Code 42 to 45 01/03/2007 - 
7 Plan Code 46 to 49 01/09/2007 - 
8 Plan Code 50 to 55 01/09/2007 - 
9 Plan Code 56 to 59 01/05/2009 - 
10 Plan Code 60 to 67 01/05/2009 - 
 

--- PDF PAGE 44 ---
Page 44 of 92 
 
The main difference in the schemes/ plans floated by PACL was with regard to the 
tenure of the scheme, plot size and the returns. It is observed that plans with codes 1 to 
27 had provided for accidental benefits and the buy back option to the customers.  
 
- The the plan with codes 10 to 27 of PACL had provided for a single installment regular 
income scheme as illustrated hereunder on sample basis: 
Table - B 
Single Installment Regular Income Scheme No. 11 
Land unit 
size in sq. 
yards 
Total 
Investment 
Regular Returns After Amount payable 
under buy back 
option (expected 
returns) 
Aggregate 
expected return 
during the 
entire period 
Accidental 
benefits  
1st 
YR. 
2nd 
YR. 
3rd 
YR. 
4th 
YR. 
5th 
YR. 
6th 
YR. 
150 5,000 - 715 715 715 715 715 7,000 10,575 7,500 
300 10,000 - 1,430 1,430 1,430 1,430 1,430 14,000 21,150 15,000 
... ...           
 
I note f rom the above  that there is a mention about the  regular returns.  However, 
PACL in its reply dated July 26, 2013, has denied giving such regular returns and 
informed that the plan codes 10 to 27 were discontinued due to operational difficulty in 
running such plans.  
 
In this regard, I observe that PACL had provided its customers under plan codes 10 to 
27, with an option to withdraw and to take refund/ return of their monies  as per the 
directions of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi . As per PACL  vide its reply dated July 26, 
2013, the majority of the customers had opted to withdraw from the plans and were 
accordingly refunded their monies . However, I note that PACL vide its letter dated 
December 13, 1999, had submitted that 8 out of a total of 1,941 customers had opted to 
withdraw from the schemes who have been repaid. The above two submissions of 
PACL are contrary to each other. I observe from the circular bearing no. 83/97 dated 
November 22, 1997 of PACL that the following was mentioned 'in view of some 
proposed regulation, scheme no. 10 to 27 were withdrawn w.e.f. December 15, 1997' for 
discontinuing the said plans. 
 
At this stage, I note that Government of India vide its press release dated November 18, 
1997, had notified its decision that schemes through which instruments such as agro 
bonds, plantation bonds etc, issued by the entities would be treated as schemes under 
the provisions of SEBI Act and directed SEBI to formulate regulations for the purposes 
of regulating such CISs. Thereafter, SEBI also came out with a press release dated 
November 26, 1997, inter alia, stating that regulations for CIS are under preparation and 

--- PDF PAGE 45 ---
Page 45 of 92 
 
till they are framed and finalized, no person can sponsor any new CIS. It was further 
notified vide the said press release that the persons desirous of availing the benefit of 
proviso to Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act, may send such information within 21 days. 
The discontinuing of the plan code 10 to 27 by PACL appears to be an outcome of such 
press releases.  
 
With respect to the above allegation in the SCN, I have seen that  PACL has taken an 
argument that the press release by SEBI was not a directive which was legally binding 
on PACL. This argument is not at all valid as those press releases were issued by the 
Government of India for the purposes of regulating CISs and for formulating 
regulations for regulating CIS. These press releases would apply all the entities that 
offered plans in the nature of CISs. PACL would also be covered under such 
stipulations if its activity was in the nature of CIS.  Further, the fact that PACL 
discontinued plans with codes 10-27 because of 'some proposed regulation' could show 
that the PACL apprehended that its plans could be termed CIS requiring registration 
from SEBI. 
 
- It is observed that PACL under the other plan code 46 to 67 had started providing the 
bifurcation of 'consideration' element of the schemes into two parts i.e. , one towards 
cost of plot, stamp duty, registration fee, miscellaneous expenses  and another towards 
the development charges . Further vide circular dated July 16, 2010, all the prevailing 
plans, i.e. plan code 28 to 67 were re-classified and the consideration was bifurcated into 
two i.e. the cost of plot and development charges. The expected value of land at the end 
of the agreement period was also revised by PACL for all its plans. Such bi furcation of 
consideration has been illustrated below: 
Table - C 
Installment Payment Plan (Development Agreement term 72 months) 
Plan Code 050 
Plot size 
(in sq. 
yards) 
Consideration (₹ ) Installment (₹ ) 
towards plot, 
stamp duty, 
registration  
Development 
& charges 
Total Yearly 
(6) 
Half 
Yearly 
(12) 
Quarterly 
(24) 
Monthly 
(72) 
Projected/ 
Expected 
value 
500 20,000 30,000 50,000 8,335 4,290 2,175 735 77,100 
1,000 40,000 60,000 1,00,000 16,670 8,580 4,350 1,470 1,54,100 
... ...         
 
Table - D 
Cash Down Payment Plan (Development Agreement term 72 Months) 
Plan Code 060 
Plot size (in 
sq. ft.) 
Cost of plot (₹ ) Development & other 
charges (₹ ) 
Total cost Projected/ Expected 
plot value on expiry of 
agreement term 
9,000 72,000 1,28,000 2,00,000 4,13,700 
18,000 1,44,000 2,56,000 4,00,000 8,27,400 

--- PDF PAGE 46 ---
Page 46 of 92 
 
 
- From the above, I note that out of the total consideration, 36% of the consideration is 
taken towards cost of the plot and 64% was towards the development and other charges 
for the existing plans. In certain instances, the consideration towards cost of plot is 40% 
and 60% is towards the development and other charges.  Thus, it can be seen that the 
cost of development of land is more than the cost of the plot itself. I note that as 
regards development, PACL in its reply dated July 26, 2013, has submitted that it puts 
considerable amount of effort for ensuring the transfor mation of the barren land by 
testing the soil, removing the top soil layer if found toxic, providing irrigation facilities, 
electricity, fertilizers, mulching and planting the right mix of crops over a few crop 
cycles, etc. In my view, the methods stated b y PACL are normal activities which are 
done for making the land irrigable and the same definitely cannot exceed the cost of 
plot itself as is happing in the present case.  
 
e. Rule Book: PACL in its reply dated July 26, 2013, has submitted that it uses no 
promotional material and all the information regarding the plans are spread 
through word of mouth only . Pursuant to the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, 
during the course of the investigation by SEBI, PACL submitted that it had adopted a rule 
book in the m eeting of its board held on May 30, 1996, for inviting investment s from the 
public in the land related schemes. It was said that t he rule book contains all business plan 
and guidelines of PACL and the same is not given to the customer.  They also submitted 
that a total of 8 circulars have been issued subsequent to the issue of rule book pertaining 
to the business plan  and a ll the schemes/ plans that have been floated by PACL were 
based on the said rule book and the circulars and the rule book were still in force. Further, 
it was said that the r ule book is not a promotional material but was only maintained for 
articulating the procedure and the best practices method by which the business was to be 
conducted by the agents and field associates. Rule book is akin to a manual containing the 
standard operating procedure and is issued to each agent/ field associates. However, PACL 
in its reply dated July 26, 2014 to the SCN, has stated that rule book is no longer the 
reference document for agents and fi eld associates and as such it is not updated to reflect 
the current policies of PACL. Further, s ince the r ule book was archaic , a book namely 
Pearls National Network ( hereinafter referred to as ' PNN') is being used as an internal 
training program manual for the agents a nd field associates of PACL . It is being used to 
train agents regarding interaction with customers and to consummate the property 
purchase transactions.  

--- PDF PAGE 47 ---
Page 47 of 92 
 
 
I note that until the filing of reply to the SCN, PACL had always referred to the rule book 
and it did not mention anything about 'PNN'. It is also noted that PACL had not 
mentioned anywhere during the course of examination by SEBI (pursuant to the order of 
Hon’ble Supreme Court) that the rule book is not in force  rather it always talked about the 
rule book and circulars issued from time to time. I note the mention of PNN in its circular 
dated November 24, 2005. However, PACL has not submitted the so-called PNN (Pearls 
National Network) book to SEBI till date. PACL is thus, contradicting itself when it comes 
to the promotional material, which they call it 'manual containing the standard operating 
procedure and is issued to each agent/ field associates'. Viewed from another angle, the so 
called manual coupled with its articulation by the agents is nothing bu t a promotional 
material. At this juncture, l et me consider the relevant portion of the sample of the 'rule 
book' which inter alia contains the following clauses: 
 
"3. METHODOLOGY  
(a) Agro Farm 
The Company generally acquires land on long term lease or on ownership basis for and on behalf of 
unit holders. Preference is given for waste land development ... .... . The company applies hightech 
means to retrieve and develop the waste lands at a very faster pace. 
... ... 
(d) Security  
Ownership of land unit is t ransferred in the name of the unit holder on the completion of payment 
schedule as per the applicable scheme. The necessary paper work, legal documents will be completed 
within a short span of time. Since the unit holder is the owner of the land unit, the investment is fully 
secured.  
... ... 
7. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE SCHEMES OFFERED BY PEARLS 
(a) Higher Returns 
A unique features of these schemes are that the longer you invest/ wait the better higher benefits you 
get from these schemes i.e. your income grows in higher proportions as every year passes. 
(b) Fully Secured 
The land ownership is transferred in your name within a reasonable period generally not exceeding 
270 days. It safeguards your interests and as such the investment is fully secured. 
... ... . 
(e) Buy Back Option 
The Company offers buy back option at the end of the term opted by the unit holders on the prices 
notified under the aggregate expected return column under various tables which are subject to change 
without prior notice by the Company under the relevant scheme(s). ... .... The unit holder has the 
option to sell off his unit holdings back to the Company on expiry of the term. However, it is not 
obligatory for the unit holder to sell the units to the Company. ... ... 
Unitholder has to notify 180 days before the expiry of the agreement date for exercising the buy back 
option. 
... ... 
(g) Joint Holding 

--- PDF PAGE 48 ---
Page 48 of 92 
 
Since the land unit will be smaller in size and the land laws prohibit land's division into smaller 
units or alternatively its division into smalle r sizes may not be otherwise feasible or practicable, the 
ownership of the land will be transferred to the Applicant/Land unit holder in joint holdings out of 
the larger land units as may be permissible/ feasible/ practicable (as the case maybe). 
(h) Regular Income  
The Company offers schemes which have provision of annual payment of returns from the end of 
second year onwards. On expiry of the term the unit holder has the option to sell the unit under the 
buy back option whereby he gets the higher value fo r the land unti l vis-a-vis the standing plants / 
trees. ... ...  
... ... 
14. LAND UNIT HOLDER'S OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY  
The ownership of land unit holder shall be limited to only the schedule property, the saplings,  plants, 
trees, crops thereon, the produce  out of it to the extent of aggregate expected return. The land un it 
holder will not have any claim over any permanent, semipermanent or moveable things situated 
whether inside or outside the scheduled property.  
15. EXTENSION OF AGREEMENT 
The agreement can be extended for further period(s) on mutually agreed terms and conditions and in 
accordance with the rules then prevailing. 
16. ASSURANCE TO LAND UNIT HOLDER 
PACL assures the land unit holder that even in the event of any shortfall in crop contrary to th e 
expectation PACL will make good such shortfall from its own share of produce. 
... ... 
27. CUSTODY OF ORIGINAL TITLE DEED 
The original title deeds shall be kept in safe custody of the Trustee(s) appointed by the company for 
the said purpose. The certified  copy of the title deed shall be supplied to the unit holder through the 
Trustee(s). The unit holder shall be at liberty to verify and see the original title document if they so 
desire during the normal working hours on working days except sundays and publ ic holidays. The 
name and address of the Trustee(s) shall be notified separately.  
28. BUY BACK OPTION  
At the end of the scheme the unit holder has the option to sell off the unit to the Company at the price 
notified by the company from time to time. Howe ver, it is not obligatory for the unit holder to sell the 
land unit(s) to the Company, he is free to sell elsewhere after obtaining NO OBJECTION and 
NO DUES CERTIFICATES from the company.  
29. BUY BACK PROCEDURE 
The unit holder must make an application for  selling/disposing of his unit under the buy back 
option at the Company's  specified price along with all original receipts, original title papers, original 
unit registration letter and such other prescribed documents like deeds, Will, undertakings, discha rge 
receipts, agreements, GPAs/SPAs etc.  Where the original title paper are lying under the custody of 
trustees, a letter addressed to trustees for delivery of title papers should be appended with the 
application. The land unit holders opting for buy back scheme shall give a notice in  writing atleast 
180 days before the expiry of the term. The Company shall not be liable for any interest or damages , 
it the option is not being exercised within the stipulated time. The payment of the buy back amount is 
linked with transfer of the ownership of units in favour of the Company or the buy back agency 
(ies)/nominee(s).  
30. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
... ... 
(f) Unit holder's receipt/ registration letter duly discharged alongwith all such papers, documents, 
deeds, arrangements, GPA's/ SPA's/ undertakings/ will etc. shall be submitted to the company at 
least 30 days before the expiry of the term. 
... ...  

--- PDF PAGE 49 ---
Page 49 of 92 
 
(o) The company will have first charge on the units on account of its services /development charges  
and for oth er incidental expenses incurred by the company, the unit cannot be sold, assigned, 
mortgaged, pledged or alienated without obtaining NO OBJECTION / NO  DUES 
CERTIFICATE from the company.  
... ... 
31.  NOTIFICATION 
The management reserves the right to discont inue or amend/modify or alter any of the 
rules/regulations and investment plans/ schemes  and introduce new plans/schemes table(s)  at any 
time at its sole discretion with or without further notice.  
32.  ARBITRATION  
In case of any dispute the decision of the Chairman/Managing Director of the company or any other 
person(s) nominated by him shall be final and shall have a legal binding on the applicant /unit 
holder, who shall have not objection to the appointment of any officer(s) of the company as the sole 
arbitrator /arbitrators."  
 
Having considered the relevant clauses quoted from the rule book as above, one can say 
that the same is addressed to none other than the prospective customers and was used with 
the sole aim of soliciting/ inviting investments. In view of the same, I find that the rule 
book as alleged in the SCN is nothing but promotional material either in its own right or 
coupled with the further action of agents in verbally canvassing the prospective customers 
and the contention of the noticees that it only contain the guidelines for business plans and 
the standard operating procedure is incorrect.   
 
f. Analysis of various documents sought/ submitted by PACL during the 
proceedings: While proceeding further, it is observed that in order to become a customer 
of PACL , an applicant has to execute various documents including application form, 
agreement, registration letter, allotment letter, special power of attorney (SPA), sale deed, 
etc. I observe that the application form and agreement,  has been used for all its prevailing 
plans.  
 
PACL during the course of investigation has submitted 5 samples of the application form 
cum agreements . PACL has claimed to have submitted the samples which were filed by 
them before the Hon'ble High Court, the Hon'ble Supr eme Court of India and also a 
sample of an existing agreement. The amendments made in the application form cum 
agreements from time to time , I note,  have not been clearly highlighted in the sample 
agreements provided by  PACL. It is also informed that the original application form cum 
agreements of such samples are not available with the company and hence the copies of 
such documents forming part of the court records have been provided to SEBI.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 50 ---
Page 50 of 92 
 
I note that the application form cum agreements  as provided b y PACL does not mention 
the dates as to when these were made applicable, there were certain over -writings and 
corrections and most of the pages of these are not legible. I note that  PACL in its reply 
has stated that sample application forms and agreements  submitted were dim and to make 
them legible, highlighting was done in certain parts. Further, where certain parts could not 
be made legible by highlighting, they had overwritten the terms of the clauses to make 
them legible. They also said that such  corrections were probably made and executed by 
both the parties at the time of execution. As per the submission of PACL , the application 
form has a column where the plan number and name of the plan is to be filled in order to 
identify which plan is taken by a p articular customer. After submitting the application form 
and agreement, the customers/ investors  get himself registered with the company.  
Thereafter, a registration letter is issued to the customer / investor  incorporating various 
details about the plan, i nstallments, nominee, etc. Pursuant to these, allotment letters are 
issued which contains the details of the property such as its location/ place and area.  The 
documents referred by PACL need to be examined in the light of the submissions made. 
 
To begin w ith, let me take up the samples of the documents such as application form, 
agreement, registration letter, allotment letter, etc. from the 500 complete case files as 
submitted by PACL  vide its letter dated April 04, 2014, pursuant to the personal hearing 
held on February 04, 2014 and February 05, 2014. I would like to give the detailed analysis 
of two sets of documents belonging to two different customers, out of the 500 samples 
mentioned above. Firstly, I deal with the set of documents of a particular customer, named 
Ms. Agrahari Kusumlata R., who is a resident of Mumbai and has submitted the application 
on December 31, 2001. The second sample which I am considering is that of Ms. Suraj Pal 
Singh, a resident of Hathras, Uttar Pradesh who has submitted the a pplication on 
November 29, 2004:  
 
A. the first document in the sets contains the 'application form' which has the details 
such as the name and father's name of the applicant, address, plan opted, payment 
details, etc. I note that it is a pre-printed document which contains the following clause: 
"I/We hereby apply to you for allotment of plot(s) of agricultural land and for development and 
maintenance of the same. 
... 
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
... ... 
2. The land shall be allotted in the name of Customer, i n the case of Cash Down Payment 
Plans, after receipt of full payment within a reasonable period generally not exceeding 270 days, 

--- PDF PAGE 51 ---
Page 51 of 92 
 
and in the case of Installment Payment plans within a reasonable period generally not exceeding 
90 days after the final receip t of 50% of total amount of installments. Subject to foregoing, the 
land ownership would be ordinarily transferred in the name of Customer within a reasonable 
period after allotment.  
... ... 
3. In case of Installment Payment Plans, if Customer makes a default by not paying one or more 
installments for a period of 12 consecutive months from the due date, such default shall be treated 
as Breach of Agreement.  
A. If such breach occurs before allotment of plot(s), the payments received under Plan before the 
allotment shall be refundable after the expiry of 12 months from the due date of last installment 
only on furnishing specific written request therefore by the Customer, after deducting 6.25% of 
total consideration comprising various costs and other incidenta l expenses, if any, and other 
incidental expenses, if any, and shall be subject to the following terms and conditions. 
... ... 
B. In case of Installment Payment Plans, if such breach occurs after the allotment of the said 
property, PACL shall be entitled t o appropriate 20% of total consideration for cost development 
charges and all other expenses incidental thereto and that PACL shall have first charge on plot 
for its dues. Where, however, breach occurs after registration of sale deed, PACL shall be entitled 
to recover, in addition to the aforesaid 20%, the balance amount, if any, of original land cost 
outstanding from him together with simple interest @ 15% per annum and liquidated damages 
@5% per annum for the delayed payments, subject to the specification  that PACL shall have 
first charge on the said property for its dues. ... ... 
... ... 
5. Under Cash Down Payment Plans the Customer(s) has the facility to opt out before the 
allotment of said property in his/ her favour. This option can be exercised by the  Customer(s) by 
submitting a specific written request to PACL to that effect. The payments received under said 
plan shall be refundable immediately to Customer(s) after deducting 20% of Consideration 
comprising various costs and other incidental expenses a nd shall be subject to the following terms 
and conditions: 
a. 20% of consideration shall be adjusted towards cost and other incidental expenses. 
... ... 
6. If Customer(s) after duly subscribing to any Plan or Plans of PACL, fails or refuses to 
submit neces sary documents papers, photographs/ to complete the necessary formalities and 
execute the documents required for the purposes of effective transfer and maintenance of his/ her/ 
their Plot(s) by PACL the same shall be construed as a case of opting out. ... PACL shall be 
entitled to invoke the terms of the aforesaid .... and appropriate 20% of the Consideration, 
comprising various costs and incidental expenses. PACL shall give 60 days notice to the 
concerned customer(s) for compliance, before his/her/ their c ase is treated as a case of opting out  
... ... 
... ...  
11. The Customer shall be the owner -in-possession of the said property. The possession of the 
said property shall rest in the hands of PACL for the limited purpose of developing, and/or, 
wherever considered appropriate by PACL for cultivating raising crops, trees, ... . 
... 
13. The Customer has the right to retain or sell the said property as he/ she may deem fit on 
expiry of the tenure of this agreement. To facilitate easy liquidity , PACL provides to 
Customer(s) the marketing services for sale of developed plots . In case Customer decides to avail 
PACL's aforesaid services, he/ she must notify PACL to that effect at least 180 days before 
the expiry of period of the agreement. The sale can be made only a t the end of the tenure of this 
agreement at such price as may mutually be agreed upon. .... 

--- PDF PAGE 52 ---
Page 52 of 92 
 
Customer must submit photocopies/ originals of the following/ all relevant documents to 
Corporate Office of PACL at least 30 days before the completion of the term: 
(i) A letter addressed to the trustees(s) for delivering the title papers 
(ii) Receipt (s) (photocopy) 
(iii) Certified copy of title deeds/ papers (photocopy) 
(iv) Registration letter (photocopy) 
(v) All other documents in original viz. Deeds, Wills, und ertakings, Discharged receipts, 
Agreements SPAs etc. as applicable from time to time. 
... ... 
15. The management of PACL reserves the right to discontinue/change/ amend/modify or after 
prospectively any of the rules/regulations and plans and introduce new plans at any time at its 
sole discretion with or without any notice." 
 
From the above, I note that PACL offers two kinds of plans i.e. CDPP ( cash down 
payment plan) and IPP (installment payment plan). As per the agreement, the customer 
has an option to choose from the aforesaid two plans. Under the CDPP plan, the land is 
allotted to the customers within a period, generally not exceeding 270 days from the 
date of receipt of the consideration, while under the IPP the land is allotted within a 
period, generally not exceeding 90 days from the date of receipt of 50% of the 
consideration amount. It is o bserved that PACL does not take any identity proof from 
the applicants  at the time of accepting the application in order to check the basic 
identity which is most e ssential for identification throughout the scheme. I also note 
that PACL has extended the facility of 'opting out' only to the customers who had made 
the investment under the CDPP . Further , the customer who wishes to sell his/ her 
land/ plot  and decides to  avail the marketing services of PACL, has to notify the 
Company at least 180 days before the expiry of the period of agreement . It has also 
been said that the sale can be made only at the end of the tenure of the 
agreement. I further note that PACL reserv es its right to discontinue/ change/ 
amend/ modify plans at its sole discretion. 
 
I now examine the sample blank 'application form' as submitted by PACL vide its letter 
dated April 18, 2013  during the course of investigation , to SEBI and note the same 
provides for three plans i.e. CDPP, Cash Down Flexi Payment Plan and IPP . The samples for 
the year 2001 and 2004 as discussed above only provides for two plans i.e. CDPP and IPP. 
 
B. The second document  in the set s is a pre-printed agreement  which contains the 
name and address of the applicant.  The same also contains the following terms and 
conditions: 
"Whereas PACL is engaged in the business of real estate and the development of agricultural 
land at various places.  

--- PDF PAGE 53 ---
Page 53 of 92 
 
WHEREAS PACL organizes the sale of  agricultura l land of different sizes, to prospective 
buyers and undertakes the development and maintenance of the same.  
WHEREAS PACL is in process of making arrangements for purchasing/ procuring the land, 
forming part of various plans launched by PACL with clear and marketable titles. 
AND WHEREAS the CUSTOMER(S), by means of an Application, which is the basis of 
this Agreement and which contains the salient terms and condition of the various Plans, has/ 
have expressed his/her/their desire of buying the said agricultural land.  
AND WHEREAS the CUSTOMER(S), has/have requested PACL to arrange for sale of 
the said agricultural land ... in his/her/their favour, and to develop and maintain the same by 
rendering various services in accordance with the said Plan.  
AND WHEREAS PACL has agreed to arrange for the sale of the SAID PROPERTY in 
favour of the CUSTOMER (S), and to develop and maintain the same by rendering various 
services as aforesaid.  
... ... 
1. SALE OF PLOTS 
The customer shall be entitled for allotment of said pro perty and subsequent transfer of title and 
possession of the same in his favour by means of registered sale deed, within such period, after 
receipt, by PACL of full consideration in case of Cash Down Payment Plans/ 50% of the 
consideration in case of Installment Payment plans ... ... Since fragmentation into smaller size of 
Plot(s); lands may not be practicable, feasible or permissible under the relevant revenue laws, the 
Customer shall have the requisite share alongwith other allotees/ transferees in a par ticular piece 
of land. ... Accordingly symbolic possession of the plots shall be handed over to the 
CUSTOMER immediately after Registration of the relevant sale deed so as to enable PACL 
to implement this agreement during the relevant period. ... 
... ... 
3. DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE  
PACL shall have the right to develop and maintain the SAID PROPERTY ... ... and 
CUSTOMER shall not ordinarily interfere, with the method and mode of development ... ... 
The Customer shall have the right to tender suggestions in regard to the development and 
maintenance of the SAID PROPERTY. 
... ... 
5. POSSESSION 
As aforesaid, the Customer shall be the owner -in-possession of the SAID PROPERTY. The 
possession of the SAID PROPERTY shall rest in the hands of PACL for the limited p urpose 
of developing ... ... 
... .... 
9. SALE OF PRODUCE 
Unless specifically directed otherwise by the Customer, PACL shall be responsible for arranging 
the sale of the product, if any, out of the SAID PROPERT Y on behalf of the customer. For 
the purposes of arranging the sale of the produce as aforesaid, PACL shall have sole discretion to 
decide as to whether the produce shall be sold in the wholesale market, and/or ... ....  
10. SALE PRICE 
The task of sale of the produce, undertaken by PACL under the provision of the aforesaid clause 
9, shall be subject to the condition that depending upon the grade of the produce harvested from 
SAID PROPERTY, market conditions and other relevant factors, PACL may decide to sell 
the produce at such price which may deem fit and reasonable in the circumstances prevailing at 
that point of time. The net sale proceeds, so obtained by PACL from the sale of the said produce 
shall be accepted as final by the Customer and no dispute shall be raised in respect in the same.  
11. NET SALE PROCEEDS 

--- PDF PAGE 54 ---
Page 54 of 92 
 
It is agreed that during the course of development of allotted/ sold plot(s) of land no saleable 
produce from the land under development is foreseen, the CUSTOMER shall not make any 
claim for any produce during the period of first six years. ... 
12. CUSTOMER'S OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY 
... ... The CUSTOMER shall not have any claim over common facilities provided by PACL, 
such as, irrigation pipelines, drainage systems and electrical lines etc. which may be passing 
through the said property, whether overground or underground. PACL shall ensure that the said 
common facilities run along the boundary of the said property. 
... ... 
15. WASTAGE 
Both PACL and the CUSTOMER agree that in the process of arranging for the sale of the 
product if any, pursuant to the aforesaid Clause 9, there will normally be a percentage of wastage 
at the time of harvesting ... ... PACL shall keep such percentage of wastage at such nominal 
levels as practicable and this shall be applicable to every harvest in general without any r eference 
to the produce harvested. 
... ... 
21. OPTING OUT 
This facility is available only under Cash Down Payment Plans before the allotment of SAID 
PROPERTY in favour of CUSTOMER(S). Under this Scheme, CUSTOMER(S) can 
exercise his option to opt out of Pla n, on his submission of a specific request to PACL to that 
effect. The payments received under said Plan shall be refundable immediately to 
CUSTOMER(S) after deduction 20% of Consideration comprising various costs and other 
incidental expenses and shall be subject to the following terms and conditions: 
a. 20% of consideration shall be adjusted towards cost and other incidental expenses. 
... ... 
22. FAILURE/ REFUSAL TO COMPLETE NECESSARY FORMALITIES 
If CUSTOMER after duly subscribing to any Plan of PACL, fai ls or refuses to submit 
necessary documents papers, photographs/ to complete the necessary formalities and execute the 
documents required for the purposes of effective transfer and maintenance of the SAID 
PROPERTU by PACL, the same shall be construed as a case of opting out. ... PACL shall 
be entitled to invoke the terms of the aforesaid .... and appropriate 20% of the Consideration, 
comprising various costs and incidental expenses. PACL shall give 60 days notice to the 
concerned CUSTOMER for compliance, before his case is treated as a case of Opting Out ... . 
... ... 
24. SALE OF DEVELOPED PROPERTY 
The CUSTOMER has the right to retain or sell the SAID PROPERTY, as he/ she may 
deem fit, on expiry of the tenure of this Agreement. To facilitate easy liquidity. ... In case 
CUSTOMER decides to avail PACL's aforesaid services, he/ she must notify PACL to that 
effect at least 180 days before the expiry of period of the Agreement. The sale can be made only 
at the end of the tenure of this Agreement at such price whic h maybe mutually agreed between the 
parties.  
Customers intending to avail PACL's 'Marketing Service' for selling/ disposing off his/ her 
said developed property shall submit an application in writing atleast 180 days before the expiry 
of the term authoris ing company to sell his/her said developed property such price as may 
mutually be agreed upon. This may be noted that PACL provides such marketing services at the 
end of the tenure of this Agreement. 
The CUSTOMER must submit photocopies/ originals of the f ollowing/ all relevant documents 
to Corporate Office of PACL at least 30 days before the completion of the term: 
(i) A letter addressed to the trustees(s) for delivering the title papers 
(ii) Receipt (s) (photocopy) 
(iii) Certified copy of title deeds/ papers (photocopy) 

--- PDF PAGE 55 ---
Page 55 of 92 
 
(iv) Registration letter (photocopy) 
(v) All other documents in original viz. Deeds, Wills, undertakings, Discharged receipts, 
Agreements SPAs etc. as applicable from time to time." 
 
- The 'agreement' states that PACL is in the process of 'making arrangements for 
purchasing/ procuring the land' . A reading of this suggests that PACL does not own 
the land on the date of application/ agreement . Further, at the time of accepting the 
applications, PACL is only making arrangements for purchasing/ pr ocuring the land. 
The provision in the 'agreement' that possession is handed over in a 'symbolic' manner 
further strengthens this observation. PACL in the 'agreement' states that as the 
fragmentation of land/ plot into smaller sizes may not be practical/ f easible/ 
permissible under the relevant revenue laws, the customer shall have the requisite 
share alongwith other allotees/ transferees in a particular piece of land. The right of 
development and maintenance is retained by PACL. Further, PACL also retains the 
right of arranging the sale of produce . The net sale proceeds, obtained by PACL from 
the sale of such produce are required to be accepted as final by the customers and he 
has no right to claim for any produce during the period of first six years of agr eement. 
PACL agrees to pay the land tax and other public dues/ levi es, payable on the land/ 
plot to the appropriate authorities on behalf of the customer and it is entitled to get 
the same reimbursed from the customer.  All these factors strongly indicate t hat even 
though a customer has subscribed to a plan, the possession of the property if and 
when it comes into existence is more with PACL than with that customer. 
 
- Further, t he 'agreement' gives the facility of opting out to the customers who have 
applied under CDPP only on a specific written request to PACL. In case of opting out, 
the payment received by PACL shall be returned to the customer after deducting 20% 
of the consideration i.e. , being the various costs and other incidental expenses. 
Further, the customer is given the option of availing the marketing services of PACL  
for which he/ she has to notify PACL at least 180 days before the expiry of the period 
of agreement. 
 
Further, the agreement to sell, places an obligation on the PACL to provide for 
common facilities and services, such as, irrigation and drainage system, pipe lines, 
electrical lines, motor pump sets, temporary sheds, structures etc. The customer, even 
though stated to be an absolute owner and in exclusive possession of the agricultural 
land, sold to him, has no exclusive ownership rights over the aforestated facilities, and 

--- PDF PAGE 56 ---
Page 56 of 92 
 
in fact, has been barred, from interfering with the aforesaid facilities and services in 
any manner, by the terms and conditions recorded in the sample agreement to s ell and 
the sample sale deed.  
 
I note the clause in the agreement that 'on execution and registration of the sale deed, the 
customer shall become and be the absolute owner -in-possession of the plot '. A reading of these 
makes it clear that by the very admission of PACL , the land allotment does not give 
any land ownership rights to the customers, it is only through  the sale deeds that the 
land ownership rights are transferred to the customers.   
 
- Now let me refer back to t he sample 'agreement ' submitted by P ACL vide its letter 
dated April 18, 2013 , to SEBI . I note the same is more or less similar to the samples 
discussed for the year 2001 and 2004, as discussed above.  
 
C. The third document in the set of documents is a 'registration letter'. I have perused 
the copy of the 'registration letter' which contains the details such as the name and 
father's name of the applicant, address, registration number, plan opted, plot size, 
consideration, installment details, nominee details, etc. I note that the 'registration l etter' 
provides the expected value of the land as ₹ 50,340 (in the case of first sample) and 
₹ 18,600 (in the case of second sample) although it neither specify the exact location 
of the plot/ property nor the State where the land will be allotted . This document 
is more in the nature of a deposit advice, recording the investment made by the 
customer and the appreciated value available on completion of the term, if opted for the 
same. 
 
D. The fourth document  is a 'Letter of Allotment of Plot(s)'  which as per the 
submission of PACL is issued to the customers in the case of CDPP, within a period of 
270 days on receipt of full consideration amount and in case of IPP, within the period 
of 90 days (later changed to 270 days)  after having received the 50% of the 
consideration amount.  
 
I note from the sample of Ms. Agrahari Kusumlata (who had became the customer of 
PACL in the year 2001) that the 'Letter of Allotment of Plot(s)' has been issued by 
PACL on July 20, 2005, containing the details of plot such as number of pl ot(s), area, 
khasra number, plot number, village name, tehsil name, district name and State name. 
The allotment letter also states that the sale deed in respect of the plot(s) allotted shall 

--- PDF PAGE 57 ---
Page 57 of 92 
 
be executed and registered shortly. The 'Letter of Allotment of P lot(s)' also contains the 
following clauses: 
"…… PACL reserves the right to change the location of t his allotment and allot you an 
alternate site at any other place. 
 
Upon registration, the original title deeds shall be handed over to the custodial service s company, 
Pearls Tech-Services (P) Ltd., ... ..., which shall be holding the same in trust. A certified copy of 
the registered sale deed shall be supplied to you by the said custodial services company. You shall 
have the right to verify the original title  deeds on any working day ... ..., after sending a formal 
request in writing 15 days in advance.  
 
This allotment and the subsequent conveyance of the aforesaid Plot(s) to you shall remain subject 
to the 'General Terms and Conditions' contained in Application form signed by you ... ... . 
 
... ... These appropriations shall cover the cost of procuring the said property and conveying it to 
you, developing the same, planting the required saplings, plants, trees, crops etc., management fees 
and other ancillary expenses incidental thereto." 
 
On perusal of the allotment letter in the sample of Ms. Agrahari Kusumlata (out of the 
sample of 500 customers as sought by me), I note that t he customer is not made aware of 
the location of the plot till the stage of issuing  of the allotment letter which in the present 
sample has been allotted after four years . It is also seen that even after allotment of land, 
PACL reserves the right to change the location of the allotment . The 'letter of allotment 
of plot' also states that the original title deeds shall be retained by the custodial services 
company of PACL and that the customer will only get a certified copy of the sale deed.  
The contents of the allotment letter of the second sample are also similar. 
 
Another important obser vation which I wish to record here is that as per the Letter of 
Allotment of Plots, PACL reserves the right to change the location of the land and allot 
another land at a different location that what was chosen by a customer in the first 
instance.  This kind of right is never seen in a pure real estate transaction.  The change of 
location (chosen by a customer) unilaterally by PACL without referring such proposal to 
the customer, could be seen as a means to force a customer to 'opt out' and move away 
with the returns promised by it, rather than allowing a customer to hold on to the site for 
which he makes the payment. 
 
E. The next document in the set of documents is a 'receipt'.  
- In the first sample the receipt is  signed by the applicant at Kurla in December 20 07, 
which reads as under: 
"RECEVIED A SUM of Rs. 50,340/- ... ..., in cash/ through A/c payee cheque/ demand 
draft no. ... ... dated January 08, 2008 drawn on Kurla from Aspen Farm Developers Pvt. 

--- PDF PAGE 58 ---
Page 58 of 92 
 
Limited ... ... as the total consideration for assignment o f  my rights under an agreement with 
PACL as the prospective vendee of 900 sq.yds. of agricultural land situated in ... ... ." 
 
I note that the figure of ₹ 50,340 exactly matches with the amount stated in the 
registration letter and the ledger as expected value of property.  
- However, in the second sample of documents of belonging to Mr. Suraj Pal Singh. I  
observe that the applicant has signed on a blank receipt in February 2010.  
 
F. There are certain other documents in th e sample  sets as submitted by PACL vide its 
letter dated April 18, 2013, which is said to be a part of the application form i.e. special 
power of attorney, will, consent letter, etc. It is obse rved that t he same are not made 
part of the sample s selected for the discussion  i.e. of Ms. Agrahari Kusumlata and Mr. 
Suraj Pal Singh . I note that the 'Special Power of Attorney ' is a pre-printed format 
wherein the customer gives his right to the attorney do the follow ing acts, deeds and 
things on behalf of the customer to his attorney:  
"1. To be present before sub -registrar of registrar for getting sale deed in respect of said plot 
executed in my favour and for getting the same registered. 
2. To do all such things as may be necessary for such execution and registration. 
3. To apply to the revenue authorities for the mutation of said plot in my name.  
4. To take possession of the said plot from the vendor or his / her nominee / agent attorney in 
such manner as may required in the circumstances or as may be appropriate. 
5. To sign application, plaints, affidavits, indemnities and such other papers and documents 
pertaining to the said plot, and appear and act on my behalf in the registrar office, and in any 
other office of Government or district board, municipal board or notified area, housing board, 
income tax and income tax appellate officer, tribunal, urban land tax and ceiling officers, town 
planning officer or any local or municipal authority or corporati on or any other office(s) of similar 
nature. 
6. To appoint advocate or revenue agent or any other legal practitioner for pursuing the legal cases 
brought against me or for filing and pursuing legal cases for or on behalf in respect of said plot of 
land. 
7. To do all acts incidental to and collateral with the above purpose." 
 
PACL in its reply has said t hat in order to address the concerns of customers regarding 
undertaking travel and incurring expense for execution of the sale deed and for other 
incidental matter, etc. the 'Special Power of Attorney ' is executed by the customers in 
favour of a representative of PACL . The attorney is tasked with the completion of time 
consuming formalities on behalf of the customer and this is an added feature in the 
bouquet of services being provided by PACL.  
 
I also note from the statement of Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Managing Director , dated May 14, 
2013 that in most of the cases a power of attorney is given to PACL  by the customer and 

--- PDF PAGE 59 ---
Page 59 of 92 
 
PACL authorizes any of its employees for exe cuting the sale deed on behalf of the 
customer. In this regard, I note that PACL has failed to provide the list of customer s who 
had not given Power of Attorney to PACL. In the absence of such list, it can be concluded 
that PACL takes Power of Attorney from all its customers.    
 
g. Analysis of the documents relating to sample of 500 customers, submitted by PACL 
 
Having considered the a bove said documents, let me give a comprehensive analysis of the 
entire set of 500 samples submitted by PACL , pursuant to the personal hearing held on 
February 04, 2014 and February 05, 2014 . I note that the sample of such 500 clients was 
selected from the list of customers  provided by PACL, who according to PACL were 
allotted land in the year 2005 -2006. This year was selected for the sample with an 
understanding that the tenure of the  agreement of such customers of PACL  would have 
been completed and the sale deeds would have been executed  as on the date of hearing . 
PACL while providing the case file of the sample 500 customers ha s categorized these as 
under: 
i. In respect of 394 customers , the tenure of the agreement was completed . These 
customers were allotted land by PACL, however, as per PACL these were not keen to 
retain their allotted land and therefore, their rights were assign ed under the agreement 
with PACL in favor of the prospective vendee. As per the submission of PACL such 
customers had received the total sale consideration.  
ii. Another 28 customers  had preferred to opt out of the agreement . As per the 
submissions of PACL, su ch requests of opting out were considered and the customers 
had received the refund of their deposits as per the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. 
iii. In respect of t he remaining 78 customers , it has been submitted that these are the  
customers whose tenure of agreement has not yet been completed . It has also been 
said that out of these 78 customers, only 45 customers have submitted their duly 
countersigned agreement and they have not submitted their complete set of documents 
necessary for the execution of the sale deed. For such reason, the sale deed could not be 
executed for such customers. For the balance 33 customers , it has been said that they 
have not sent their duly signed agreement till date to PACL, despite reminders for the 
completion of further necessary formalities.     
 
I would now like to note down my observations on these samples: 

--- PDF PAGE 60 ---
Page 60 of 92 
 
A. From the sample of 500 customers, it is noted that the land was claimed to be allotted 
to these for their investments made during the period of March 2001 to December  
2005, however, none of these have culminated in the execution of sale deed and as per 
the submission of PACL and 421 customers have taken their money back till the date of 
submitting the details to SEBI. 
B. Out of the total 500 customers, 334 customers had o pted for CDPP plan and 165 
customers had opted for IPP plan.  In respect  of the remaining one customer, plan 
details could not be determined.  
C. While examining the complete case file/ set of documents as submitted in respect of 
500 customers, it is noted that PACL has not submitted the following: 
- the application form cum agreement in the case of 248 customers,  
- the registration letter in the case of 11 customers,  
- the receipt with regard to the repayment in the case of 157 customers.  
D. It is further noted that  in the application form of about 19 customers , FD/ RD is 
mentioned in the space provided for the plan name.  This again reinforces the earlier 
observation that the monies are taken as deposits/ investments with promise of return 
at a later date 
E. As stated b y PACL, 394 customers were not keen to retain their allotted land and 
preferred to assign their rights under the agreement in favour of the prospective vendee 
and had received back the total sale consideration. However, a perusal of the complete 
set of documents submitted with regard to the said 394 customers , it is seen that there 
are no written requests found to have been made by such customers in this regard.  
Out of the said 394 customers (who had completed the tenure of agreement according 
to PACL), 252 customers had opted for CDPP plan, still sale deeds were not executed 
for a very long period (even beyond the contractual period). As per the submission of 
PACL, the execution of sale deed happens within a reasonable period from the 
allotment of plot  in such plans. However, there is nothing on record that shows proof 
of such sale as actually happening.  
F. I also note that PACL had sent letters for execution of the sale deed to only 78 
customers (whose tenure of agreement has not yet been completed).  PACL has not sent 
any letters to the said 394 customers for execution of the sale deed. 
G. As per the agreement executed between PACL and its customers, the opting out facility 
was only available under the C DPP plan and that also before the allotment of the land 
in favour of the customer on submission of a specific written request to PACL, to that 

--- PDF PAGE 61 ---
Page 61 of 92 
 
effect. As per the terms of the agreement, the payments received under the said plan 
shall be refundable immediately to the customer after deduction of 20% of the 
consideration comprising various costs and other incidental expenses. PACL has said 
that 28 customers out of the total 500 customers had preferred to opt out of the 
agreement and their request have been considered and refunds have been made to these 
customers. Out of the said 28 customers, it has been found that 23 customers had opted 
for IPP plan and still they have been provided option of opting out  whereas, as per the 
agreement, opting out option is not available in case of IPP. 
Thus, PACL has submitted the facts  that are contrary to its own submission that the 
'opt out' facility will be provided to the customers under CDPP plan, whereas it actually 
provided such facility to customers who had opted for IPP (Installment Payment plan) 
also. This indicates that 'opt out' feature is not restricted to only CDPP plan as put forth 
by PACL and is available across all the plans. The same shows that PACL seems to be 
eager in seeing a customer opting out  as it had given such option to persons under IPP 
as well. 
H. Upon perusal of the documents for the said 28 customers (who had preferred to opt out 
of the agreement), it is noted that the customer had made the entire payment, however, 
the sale deed has not been executed even in a single case. I also note that in 3 instances, 
no money has been repaid to them. A brief of summary of such 3 instances is brought 
down hereunder: 
Table - E 
Name of customer Application date Plan Allotment  Amount 
repaid 
Mr. Sitaram Sahu May 2005 Cash Down Payment  January 2006 July 2011 
Mr. S. Maha Lingam May 2001 Installment Payment  July 2005  
Ms. S Manjula September 2002 Installment Payment  July 2005  
 
I note that in the case of Mr. Sitaram Sahu, no sale deed has been executed though the 
full amount remained with PACL during the period of 2006 to 20 11 although he had 
statedly applied and paid under the Cash Down Payment Plan. In this regard, I refer to 
the terms of the agreement between PACL and its customers that the customer shall be 
entitled for the allotment of the said property and subsequent tr ansfer of the title and 
possession of the same in his favour by means of registered sale deed, within such 
period, after receipt by PACL of the full consideration, in case of cash down payment 
plan/ 50% of the consideration in case of installment payment p lan. As regards the 
customer namely Mr. S. Maha Lingam (who is a customer in IPP plan), it is noted that 

--- PDF PAGE 62 ---
Page 62 of 92 
 
he had made the entire payment in October 2006. PACL has submitted that this 
customer had requested for repayment vide its letter in December 2006 and sanction 
letter was issued in January 2007. However, no such request letter or payment receipt 
could be found from the documents submitted. Same is the case with Ms. S. Manjula 
who had made the entire payment in January 2008.  Based on the above, one is mor e 
inclined to conclude that there has not been effective repayments as claimed by PACL.  
I. Further, in the instance s noted below, the customer had not made full payment as per 
the plan and preferred to opt out, however, they have been repaid the amount which  is 
more than what they had paid to PACL:  
- Ms. Y. Rosemerry paid ₹ 6,240 but was repaid ₹ 6,543. 
- Mr. Chama Nayaka paid ₹ 2,880 but was repaid ₹ 2,949. 
- Mr. A. Arjunan paid ₹ 16,380 but was repaid ₹ 17,207. 
- Mr. Puranlal Patel paid ₹ 7,500 but was repaid ₹ 7,986. 
- Mr. Jag Singh Netam paid ₹ 4,095 but was repaid ₹ 4,333. 
- Mr. Manharan Das Vaishnav paid ₹ 3,750 but was repaid ₹ 5,365. 
- Ms. C. Lilly Pushpam paid ₹ 9,760 but was repaid ₹ 13,104. 
- Mr. Mansingh Markam paid ₹ 4,095 but was repaid ₹ 4,333. 
Opting out facility has been pr ovided in IPP, whereas as per the agreement, opting out 
facility is available only in case of CDPP. As per the agreement, 20% of the total 
consideration paid would have been deducted, in case the customer is opting out.  
However, in the above instances PACL  has repaid more than the amount paid by the 
customers and the same appears to be a portion of interest. 
PACL has submitted 'sanction letters' in the cases of the abovesaid 2 8 customers, who 
preferred to opt out, wherein, inter-alia, the sanction letter re fers to the letter received 
from the customers requesting for opting out.  However, the set of documents 
submitted by PACL does not contain the copies of such request letters.  Further, the 
sanction letters in all such 28 instances refers to some customer letter number. In the 
normal course,  the individual does not give any letter numbers.  Further, t he set of 
documents of such clients does not contain any p roof of dispatch of cheque/ DD or 
proof of receipt of payment by such customers. 
J.Out of the sample of 50 0 customers, PACL had issued letter s to 78 customers to submit 
agreement duly signed and complete along with certain documents for execution of the 
sale deed. The said letters were issued within 1-8 months of the allotment of plot  in the 
case of the said 78 customers (who had a valid tenure of agreement with PACL) only 
and reminders were also issued by PACL within 3 -12 months of the allotment made  in 
such cases. However, in the case of other 422 customers, no such letters were produced 

--- PDF PAGE 63 ---
Page 63 of 92 
 
by PACL , in spite of the customers having completed the respective tenures of 
agreement.  
At this stage, I refer to terms of the agreement wherein it has been said that " if customer 
after duly subscribing to any plan fails or refuses to submit necessary documents, papers, phot ographs to 
complete the necessary formalities and execute the documents required for the purpose of effective transfer 
and maintenance of their plot by PACL, the same shall be construed as a case of opting out. In the 
event of such failure or refusal, PACL  shall be entitled to invoke the terms and appropriate 20% of 
consideration comprising various costs and incidental expenses. PACL shall give 60 days notice to the 
concerned customer for compliance, before their case is treated as a case of opting out and dealt with 
accordingly." I note that in the case of such 78 customers, n either such notices have been 
sent by PACL nor has repayment been done to them. 
A perusal of such letters for execution of the sale deed reveals that it is a standardized 
letter, where in, it has been mentioned that the documents in the agreement are 
incomplete. It is important to note that the reason given by PACL for non -execution of 
sale deed is strikingly same for all its 78 customers.  
In the instances of the 78 customers, wherein s ale deed were to be executed, the 
agreement is shown as incomplete  by PACL . I note that the documents that should 
have been collected at the time of registration i.e. photographs, ID proof, address proof 
are collected by PACL  only after the allotment of la nd and at the time of execution of 
the sale deed.  
K. Discrepancies such as 'khasra no.' in four instances differ ing from the allotment letter 
vis-a-vis the details provided by PACL for such customers  is also noted . Mr. Shumbhul 
Shavan one of the customer of PACL has himself signed as a witness, in his own 
agreement.  
L. The plots have been resold by the customers majorly to only 2 entities (stated to be 
prospective vendees)  viz., Aspen Farm Developers Limited and Ivy Farm Developer 
Pvt. Limited having their registered office in Chennai.   
From the discussions in the sub-paragraphs above, I observe that PACL has not followed 
the uniform practice while dealing with its customers in returning the money to them and 
has therefore deviated from its own terms/ clauses i n the agreement. The rights in the land 
allotted are said to have been assigned by the customers to the prospective vendees, 
however, in the absence of any sale deeds, the fact remains that the customer gets neither 
the possession, nor the legal rights in the land (said to be allotted by PACL) to transfer the 
same to prospective vendee. 

--- PDF PAGE 64 ---
Page 64 of 92 
 
h. Letters were also issued to all the 500 customers asking for certain details . The status of 
such issued letters is as under: 
 
i. Letters in respect of 292 customers were delivered and the signed acknowledgements 
in respect of these have been received.  
ii. Acknowledgements in respect of 5 customers have been received as unsigned. 
iii. Letters in respect of 75 customers have been returned as undelivered with remarks 
like 'address incomplete', 'address not correct', 'no such person', etc. 
iv. No intimation has been received in respect of 128 letters. 
 
I note that out of the 292 letter s which were delivered to the customers, o nly eleven (11) 
customers have replied  back to SEBI.  A summary of the details pertaining to the nine 
relevant cases are given below: 
 
- Ms. Kempama and Mr. Ramchandra Telavade replies are in the nature of complaints 
wherein, it has been stated that they have not received the invested amount  back. From 
the set of documents as submitted by PACL in respect of 500 customers, it is noted that 
these two customers have been shown to be refunded the amount as their tenure of the 
agreement was complete. PACL in its submission has also said that these customers 
were allotted land by it, however, since they were not keen to retain the land allotted, 
therefore, they ha ve assigned their rights in favour of the prospective vendee and had 
received the total sale consideration.  In support of such submission, PACL has 
submitted the copy of the r eceipt of payment in respect of one of the customer s. A 
perusal of such receipt shows that the same bears the thumb impression of the 
customer; however, the authenticity of the same cannot be verified as PACL has failed 
to provide the application form of s uch customer. As regards, other customer, PACL 
has not provided any proof of payment made.  
- Yet another customer namely Mr. Munnawer Hussain  has replied and submitted that he 
has not applied for the purchase of plot, hence, he does not have any receipt or any 
application form with regard to the investment made therein. However, I note from the 
details provided by PACL that the same customer had paid ₹ 30,000 and has been 
allotted 600 sq.  yd. under CDPP.  PACL in its support has submitted the receipt of 
payment of  ₹ 62,700. However, I note that the signature on the receipt cannot be 
verified as PACL has failed to submit the application cum agreement form of such 
customer.   

--- PDF PAGE 65 ---
Page 65 of 92 
 
- Another customer Mr. Kalpana D. Kadam has informed that she had applied for the plot 
and the plot was allotted in Andhra Pradesh  and on maturity the certificate was 
deposited in the branch of PACL. A perusal of the details/ documents submitted by 
PACL, it is noted that this customer was allotted land in Tamil Nadu.  
- One of the customer s namely Mr. Durg Singh has informed that he had purchased land 
for ₹ 10,000 and with the help of PACL, it has sold the said plot at ₹ 20,900. I note that 
the said customer has not attached anything to his letter to show that plot was sold by 
him. PACL in its submission has said that this customer was also allotted land by i t, 
however, since he was not keen to retain the land allotted, therefore, he has assigned his 
rights in favour of the prospective vendee and had received the total sale consideration. 
- Yet another customer namely Mr. Kocharla Sankara Rao has informed that a fter the 
expiry of the term, he had submitted all the documents in original to PACL and got the 
total amount of investment for the land along with the development charges.  
- One customer namely Ms. Sadhmati Sonwani has informed that she has invested in 3 
bond papers of PACL amounting to ₹ 40,000 which is maturing on December 30, 2014 
and that he has not received any plot, allotment letter or possession of any plot. PACL 
in this regard has submitted that they have sent two letters to the said customer to 
execute sale deed. 
- I further note that customer namely Mr. Ram Pravesh Choudhary has informed that he 
has paid ₹ 10,000 for the land and the agreement expires in 2015 and that he shall take 
formal steps for completing all the formality for executing the sale dee d. PACL in this 
regard has submitted that they have sent two letters to the said customer to execute sale 
deed.   
 
From the above, I note that there are several discrepancies in the version of PACL vis-a-vis 
the replies of the customer s to my letters . I no te that out of the 500 letters only 292 have 
been delivered and of which only 11 have chosen to reply. I note that certain replies are in 
the nature of complaints as against PACL, which have been forwarded to PACL for 
resolution. PACL, however, i s unable t o identify these customers and has asked SEBI for 
their further details.  
 
i. Observations in respect of the documents for 500 samples  
 

--- PDF PAGE 66 ---
Page 66 of 92 
 
Before proceeding further, let me recapitulate my observations in respect of the documents 
for 500 samples and the analysi s for the set of documents submitted for such customers , 
vis-a-vis other records available and discussed by me.  
 
- In the application form a t the place of plan , FD/ RD is written, which gives an 
impression that the scheme operated by PACL w ere nothing but money mobilization 
schemes. 
- PACL invites investment in terms of the rule book , under which one of the aim s of 
PACL is to offer maximum return on investment and benefits to the customers. 
- PACL pools the money of the customers for procuring the land. The rule  book also says 
that the PACL acquires the land on long term lease or on ownership basis for and on 
behalf of unit holders. I note that had the transaction of PACL been real estate 
transaction, PACL would have disclosed the location of the land/ land avail ability at the 
time of application itself. By not providing such details at the time of application and 
informing about the same after passage of substantial time indicates that PACL pools 
the money received from the customers for the purchase of the land.  
- The registration letter mentions the expected value of the land , although the land is not 
allotted even at such stage and the location of the plot/ land remains undisclosed. Even 
the name of the State (where the property is located) has not been disclosed in the 
registration letter.  PACL has argued that it does not promise any 'assured return' or 
'profit' to its customers, rather the ‘estimated realizable value’ referred in the registration 
letter is a benchmark value, which the customers use at the time of sale to third parties. 
It has also been said that none of its customers has sold their land at a value below the 
estimated realizable value , till date . PACL has submitted that the 'expected value'/ 
'estimated realizable value' is the price which the land commands on completion of the 
development activities. I note that PACL has provided the criteria to fix the estimated/ 
expected value of land , which consists of the development activities, market forces, 
price inflation index and past experience of manag ement and has further submitted that 
there is no specific method for determining the estimated value of land.  
Before concluding on the same, let me consider the above criteria to calculate the 
expected land value in the words of PA CL. I note that th e development on the land 
will be carried out on certain future dates. Such activities cannot be said to be carried 
out at all places where PACL owns the land . Other  factors such as price inflation 
index and past experience of management  is also of no relevance as on the date of 
issuing registration letter, the plot/  land is not identified . Considering the se, PACL 

--- PDF PAGE 67 ---
Page 67 of 92 
 
could not have fixed the expected value of the land,  with the kind of precision it has 
done. Such definite 'expected value' of the land can be calculated only by a mathematical 
formula. However, the value of land varies according to the market conditions  and 
location.  
- PACL allots the land and reserves the right to change the location of the allotment. It has 
been argued that customers would not have any  cause for concern with regard to the 
change of location as the land would uniformly be barren at the acquisition stage. Based 
on the submissions of PACL, it is inferred that even at the stage of allotment , the 
development on the tract of land has not started.  
From the submissions of PACL, it is not clear as to how two pieces of land can  
uniformly be barren, especially in cases where the land belongs to different States like 
Punjab and Rajasthan . In my opinion, the value of each piece of land usually varie s on 
the basis of location, quality and infrastructure such as t he land suitable for sowing 
certain 'cash crops', it s proximity to natural water source, it falls in the State wherein 
regular electricity supply is there , in such cases, the piece of land wil l definitely 
command higher price. Further, if a person in Madhya Pradesh is initially promised land 
in his home state and thereafter, PACL changes the location to say Tamil Nadu, it 
cannot be said that the customer will not be aggrieved by this change. In  such a case, he 
is forced to take the realizable value. As mentioned above in this Order, the agreements 
give a unilateral right to PACL to change the location of land. 
- PACL by its own admission has said that only symbolic possession of the plots are 
handed over to the customer , as the fragmentation of land/ plot into smaller sizes may 
not be practical or permissible under the applicable revenue laws. 
- PACL earlier had not provided the option of choosing the State to its customer and 
developing the plot.  
- I observe from the statement of Mr. Sukhdev Singh, M.D., PACL dated May 14, 2013  
that 'all business plans are inclusive of land cost and development charges. Therefore, there is no scope 
for the customer to opt for the self development of the plot in the ex isting plans.' The same was also 
confirmed by Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Director, PACL who had submitted that the 
development of agricultural land sold to its customers is done by PACL only. Mr. 
Gurmeet Singh has also submitted that the provision of choosing land  has been 
provided to the customers only 2-3 years back. However, it has not been explained as to 
how this is being achieved (i.e. the customer will develop the land) as only symbolic 
possession is given to the customers. 

--- PDF PAGE 68 ---
Page 68 of 92 
 
- The right of maintenance, developm ent and sale of produce are retained by PACL. The 
customer gets no right to claim for any produce out of the plot/ land for first six years 
of the agreement , even in the CDPP opted plan, wherein the customer pays the entire 
consideration at the time of agr eement itself. It is mentioned in the agreement that the 
customer shall be the owner in possession of the said property at all times.  PACL in its 
agreement states that the customer cannot claim from the produce of land for the first 
six years. It is not cl ear as to how the customer then becomes 'owner in possession ' at 
all times. Inspite of paying full consideration including development charges in CDPP 
plans, the customer has to wait for six years to get his share from the produce. 
- Further, PACL while repa ying the customers who had preferred to opt out has repaid 
almost exact amount  of the expected value without making any deduction of 20% as 
stated in the agreement.  PACL has not explained as to what happened to the taxes or 
other dues which it had borne on behalf of such customers.  
- The customer who wishes to avail the marketing services of PACL has to notify the 
company at least 180 days before the expiry of the agreement and the sale happens only 
at the end of the tenure of the agreement at a price that is fixed well in advance.  
However, a perusal of the documents available on record shows that there was no 
mutual agreement about the price. The price was fixed by PACL in the registration letter 
('estimated realizable value') at the time when the customer has initially entered into the 
agreement. Further, the said 394 case files made available to SEBI do not contain any 
notification/ communication of customers to PACL regarding the price. 
- The land ownership and possession is said to be transferred by means of sale deed which 
as per the submissions will be executed within a reasonable period after allotment of 
plot/ land. 
- On execution of the sale deed, PACL has stated that, the sa le deed s are held with its 
custodial services company and that the customers only gets a certified copy of the sale 
deed.  PACL has argued that as the tenure of the agreement is continuing and further 
installments are yet to come, the sales deeds are retained with its custodial services 
company. The argument of PACL, however, is of no relevance in the case of CDPP (as 
per the samples submitted by PACL, out of the 500 samples 334 customers had opted 
for CDPP), as the entire consideration is received by PACL at the beginning of the 
agreement itself, where no installments are further due to PACL.  
- The  Special  Power of Attorney ('SPA') admittedly is given to PACL by the customers. 
According to PACL, the SPA has been executed to address the concerns of customers 

--- PDF PAGE 69 ---
Page 69 of 92 
 
regarding undertaking travel and incurring expenses of execution of sale deed and other 
incidental matters. However, I note that the PACL has submitted neither the total 
number nor the details of the investors who have not executed the Special  Power of 
Attorney. I note such details are crucial  for PACL for the day -to-day conduct an d 
management of its affairs. 
- In the absence of the details of the customers who have not opted for signing Special 
Power of Attorney  even after specifically asking for it, I am compelled to draw an 
adverse inference and note that PACL has taken the Special Power of Attorney from all 
its customers. It appears that PACL used to take the Special Power of Attorney from all 
the customers as the same helps it to keep the transactions within its own control. 
- I note that the allotment letter is only a document issu ed by PACL and that the same 
does not entail any legal right in the land  to the customer . As per Section 54 of the 
Transfer of Property Act, 1882, the sale of immovable property is complete on 
execution of the sale deed  or on delivery of the property , wh ereas in the selected 
samples admittedly not a single sale deed has been executed. In the absence of any 
legally enforceable document, I note that the customers have no title in the land  and 
therefore the question of assigning the same to the prospective vendee does not arise.  
- For argument sake, even if, one were to assume that there were certain rights available to 
the customers , then also , the customers are not entitled to transfer these as the 
possession and ownership both remain ed with the PACL. The same  are admittedly 
transferred, only on the execution of the sale deed and completion of the tenure, which 
has not happened in any of the sample cases before.  
- PACL in its submissions has said that it has started giving the option of development of 
land to it s customers since 2011. I note from the scheme details submitted by PACL , 
that the total cost of plot is inclusive of the development cost , indicating that the 
development is part and parcel of the agreement . It is also not clear as to how the total 
cost would be adjusted in case the development is not opted by the customer , as it is 
nowhere mentioned in the schemes/ plans of PACL.  
- By its own admission, the agreement entered between PACL and its customers along 
with the application form is not a registered  document and hence any restrictions on 
alienation or transfer of the immovable property are not a valid restriction under law.  
These words of PACL exposes the myth underlying the so -called title and rights said to 
be transferred by PACL to its customers under their agreement. 

--- PDF PAGE 70 ---
Page 70 of 92 
 
- Not a single applicant out of the 500 samples selected has registered a sale deed of the 
land he had proceeded to purchase in the first instance. This gives rise to a clear 
conclusion that the real estate business that the Company pro claims to carry on is a 
facade and sham to camouflage their activity as CIS.  
- All the facts described above and the proposal of repayment as submitted by PACL 
suggests that PACL is operating nothing but a money mobilizing scheme. 
- As stated above, no sale d eeds were executed for all of the 500 customers selected on 
sample basis. Therefore, no possession of lands were handed over to such 500 
customers. In view of the same, t here was no need for any field visit to verify whether 
the customers of PACL actually received the lands or not.   
 
j. Table of changes made in the agreements: I note that PACL along with its reply has 
provided a table showing the details of the changes made in the agreement from time to 
time. One of the changes as stated is that the provision s of the joint application is changed 
to single applicant in the agreement  filed in the year 2000 and 2004 . However, it is noted 
from the sample application form and agreement submitted for the years 2001 and 2004, 
that the application for the year 2004 do es not have provision of seeking details of second 
and third applicant as was available during the years 2001, 2002 and 2003. It is further 
noted that the agreement submitted in the year 2004 still refers to 'joint applicants' (such as 
that at para 26 of t he agreements). PACL has also intimated that the provisions for 
accidental disability/ death benefit and emergency loan were omitted in '2000 and 2004'. I 
have seen the application form cum agreement pursuant to the year 2000 i.e. for the years 
2001, 2002,  2003 and 2004. From the same, it is noted that the application form and 
agreement for the years 2001, 2002 and 2003, have the provisions for accidental disability/ 
death benefit and emergency loan. The clauses relating to these have been omitted only in 
the year 2004.  
 
PACL has also submitted that in the year s '2004 and 2011' , the application format was 
modified and an option regarding development and preference of State was added. I have 
considered this submission of PACL and perused the application forms and agreements for 
the years 2004 and 2005 and note that the same do not have such option of choosing 
development and the preference for a particular State. In view of the above, I note that the 
table of relevant changes as provided by PACL along with its submissions, does not give a 
complete picture of the alterations/changes made and is vague. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 71 ---
Page 71 of 92 
 
k. Verification of sale deeds by Justice K. Swamidurai 
 
At this stage, I note from the argument of the noticees that Justice K. Swamidurai (Retd.) 
who was appointed  by the Hon'ble High Court of Delhi vide order dated November 16, 
2000 to supervise the land sale transactions of PACL has scrutinized/ supervised the sale 
transactions and also carried out the site inspection. PACL has said that the sale, purchase 
and dev elopment activities by itself  are validated by Justice K. Swamidurai in his final 
report dated September 20, 2002 and he is still verifying all the sale deeds executed by 
PACL as per the order of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi. I note that Hon'ble Delhi High 
Court in its order dated March 03, 2003, in the matter of S.D. Bhattacharya case has inter alia 
stated that: 
"... All transactions to be carried out by the Company should be carried out as per the report of 
Justice K. Swamidurai. Future registrations may c ontinue after being duly verified by Justice K. 
Swamidurai and this will be done at the expense of the company." 
 
- I observe that, Justice K. Swamidurai has verified 19,284 sale deeds , by April 2013. In 
other words, PACL has executed 19,284 sale deeds till date and all these are verified by 
Justice K. Swamidurai  in compliance with order of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi . As 
noted above Justice K. Swamidurai, in his reports had advised PACL to apply and 
obtain the encumbrance certificate issued by the concerned Sub Registrars. However, I 
note that PACL has not produced any documents/ details to show that it has taken any 
steps towards procurement of such documents. From the same, I note that PACL 
although was executing sale deeds in favour of the customers and ge tting these verified 
through Justice K. Swamidurai , however, has not taken any steps to ensure that the 
subject land is encumbered in the real owners ' name as required by Justice K. 
Swamidurai. I also note that PACL has not brought on record a single insta nce where 
the mutation has happened in the favour of any of the customers of the schemes.  
 
- Further, I note from the submissions of PACL that it operates from 15 regional offices 
covering around 308 locations. It has 33,48,656 field associates  during the year of 2011-
12. From the same, I note that PACL had large scale of operation. By its own 
admission, PACL has  2.06 crore total customers  (details provided for the year 2005-
2012). Further, from the available records, it is also noted that s ince inception till 2012, 
PACL has allotted land to about 1.22 crore customers.  
 
- At this stage, I note from the details submitted during the course of investigation that 
PACL had mobilized funds from its customers to the tune of ₹ 44,736 crores till March 

--- PDF PAGE 72 ---
Page 72 of 92 
 
31, 2012. Further by its own admission, it has collected ₹ 4364,78,08,345 from 
39,97,357 customers during the period of February 26, 2013 to June 15, 2014. The total 
amount mobilized comes to a whooping 49,100 crore. This figure could have been 
even more if PACL would have provided the details of the funds mobilized during the 
period of April 01, 2012 to February 25, 2013.  The collection of s uch huge funds 
suggests that PACL has many more customers than the stated 1.22 crore. In th is regard, 
I also refer to the proposal of PACL and its directors as forwarded to SEBI through 
their advocates and note that it has 4,63,13,342 customers to whom the land has not yet 
been allotted . Thus, a quick calculation of the total number of the custo mer of 
PACL comes to around 5.85 crore  which includes the customers who said to have 
been allotted land and who are yet to be allotted the land.  
 
- PACL while replying to the SCN and making submission during the personal hearings 
has heavily relied on the r eports of Justice K. Swamidurai. I have considered the main 
defense of PACL that Justice K. Swamidurai has verified and validated the sale deeds 
executed by it. In order to verify the claim of PACL, I had asked it provide a summary 
of the sale deeds as ver ified by Justice K. Swamidurai. A gist of the details as submitted 
by PACL in this regard are as under: 
Table - F  
S.No. Date of report s of Justice K. 
Swamidurai 
No. of sale deeds registered in 
respect of customers 
1. January 05, 2002 and September 20, 2002 14,150 
2. August 30, 2007 1,102 
3. December 08, 2007 1,404 
4. November 13, 2009 2,367 
5. June 30, 2010 215 
6. December 10, 2011 30 
7.  April 04, 2013 16 
   
Total 19,284 
   
There is no question of commenting on the transactions verified and vali dated by Justice 
K. Swamidurai. However, I note from the table above that PACL till the date of submitting 
information to SEBI  had executed only 19,284 sale deeds. I note that as per its own 
admission, it had allotted land to 1.22 crore customers  till 2012  without executing sale 
deeds. PACL has stated in its proposal that it is yet to allot land to around 4.63 crore 
customer as on March 31, 2014. This shows that the customer base of PACL has 
multiplied since the order of Hon'ble High Court of Delhi, however  the number of sale 
deeds executed every year has come down significantly. It is seen that in the year 2000-2002 

--- PDF PAGE 73 ---
Page 73 of 92 
 
PACL had executed sale deeds in respect of '14,084' customers whereas the number of sale 
deeds executed has come down to mere '16' in the year 2013.  
 
Further, PACL out of the sample of 500 customers, is not able to show a single transaction 
wherein the transaction would have been completed by execution of the sale deed. These 
facts raise serious doubt the real estate business that PACL claims to  carry out . The 
available facts on record suggest that PACL by relying on certain sale deeds which in fact is 
less than 0. 16% compared o f its total customer base of 1.22 crore  (customers to whom 
PACL claims that land has been allotted till 2012) claims tha t it is in the business of sale 
and purchase of agricultural land. If the executed sale deeds are compared with the total 
number of customers, i.e. about 5.85 crore as discussed in the para graph above, the same is 
even more miniscule. This also corroborates my earlier conclusions that PACL is running a 
CIS and is promising returns to its customers in the guise of offering/  allotting lands. By 
stipulating the condition w.r.t. change of location (i.e. PACL reserves the right to change 
the location of the land  till the stage of execution of sale deed ) and stating that all its 
customers have 'opted out' and have been paid the promised sum indicated in the 
registration letter ('estimated realizable value') without deducting the 20% charges (which it 
claimed would be done in case a customer opts out),  the 'real estate theory' put forth by 
PACL fizzles out. Thus it turns out that the schemes/ plans of PACL are nothing but a 
money mobilization scheme as detailed in the paragraphs above. 
 
l. Samples of Executed Sale Deed s: I observe from the information submitted by PACL, 
that initially when the schemes were introduced the lands were allotted by it in the State of 
Punjab only. Thereafter, it had allotted lands in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa 
also. In 2005-06, PACL allotted land in Chattisgarh as well. PACL started allotting land in 
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the year 2006-07. An analysis of the details available 
shows that since inception PACL has allotted lands in 8 States only, out of which majorly 
the land has been allotted in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. I further note 
that during the year 2010 -11, 99.90% of the customers were allotted land in 3 States only 
namely Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. It is sheer coincidence that the 19,284 
sale deeds which were verified by Justice K. Swamidurai were for the lands in these three 
States only. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 74 ---
Page 74 of 92 
 
I have seen the copies of the executed sale deed submitted by PACL on a sample basis. For 
an independent analysis, I have taken certain samples for detailed examination and noted as 
under: 
Table - G 
Name of 
Customer 
Applicat
ion year 
Date of 
sale 
deed 
City/ State 
of 
customer 
Total Area 
[Area sold to 
customer]/ 
Consideration 
(₹ ) 
PoA holder 
of 
Customer 
City/ 
State of 
Custo
mer's 
PoA 
State 
where 
land is 
situate
d 
If land 
belongs 
to PACL 
Land in the 
name of 
Land 
purchased 
on 
Authorised 
representativ
e who have 
signed on 
the sale deed 
City/ 
State of 
PoA 
             
Ms. Marriet 
Pinto 
2005 December 
08, 2007 
Manglore/ 
Karnataka 
140 Bigha, 11 
Biswa [1001 sq. 
yds.]/15,000 
Suresh Sinha, Sr. 
Assistant, PACL 
Noida/ 
U.P. 
Rajasthan No Chailbihari, 
R/o Allahbad, 
U.P. 
June 18, 
2007 
Manoj 
Kumar 
Delhi 
Panna Lal 
Bairwa 
2006 October 
24, 2011 
Dausa/ 
Rajasthan 
1.31 Cts.* 
[0.203/4 Cts.]/ 
10,375 
S. 
Karthikeyan 
Pondich
erry 
Tamil 
Nadu 
No PVG 
Developers P. 
Ltd. 
October 
20, 2008 
Gurunatha
n 
Madurai
/ Tamil 
Nadu 
Banwari Lal 
Nagar 
2006 Februar
y 14, 
2012 
Baran/ 
Rajasthan 
1.70 Cts. 
[0.203/4 Cts.]/ 
10,375 
S. 
Karthikeyan 
Pondich
erry 
Tamil 
Nadu 
No World Wide 
Real Estate 
P. Ltd. 
March 
30, 2009 
Gurunatha
n 
Madurai
/ Tamil 
Nadu 
Ms. H. 
Rajina 
Begam 
2006 April 
09, 2009 
Perambalu
r/ Tamil 
Nadu 
5.016 Hectare 
[0.084 Hectare]/ 
15,000 
Manoj 
Kumar 
Delhi Madhya 
Pradesh 
No Narendra 
Sharma 
- Kamalveer 
Tyagi 
Delhi 
* 1 Cts (Cent) = 0.004046856 Hectare 
 
Having examined the samples selected, my observation on the same are as under: 
 
- The 'power of attorney' holder has executed the documents on behalf of the customers . 
The power of attorney (PoA) given by the customers have been notarised at New Delhi 
i.e. a place none of the customers have any relation except that PACL has its registered 
office at New Delhi. Given this fact, it could also be inferred that the PoA was used for 
'changing location' and thereafter to 'opt out' on behalf of the customer than for 
registration of the sale deed on behalf and in favour of the customer. 
- The land sold is not in the name of PACL. It has been stated in the sale deeds that PACL 
is in agreement with su ch land holders. However, I note that no such agreement ha ve 
been made part of the sale deed.  The same suggests that  PACL does not own the land 
even on the date of sale deeds. 
- The date of purchase of land by sellers and the date of sale deed are close. Fo r e.g. in the 
case of the customer namely Ms. Marriet Pinto, the land was purchased on June 18, 
2007, the same was transferred in the name of the customer on December 08, 2007 , i.e. 
just after 6 months. The same shows that PACL pools in the money for the purchase of 
land and does not do any development of the land.  However, this type of cases are very 
negligible. 
- The land allotted are located at places  which are far off  from the places where the 
customers are generally residing. 

--- PDF PAGE 75 ---
Page 75 of 92 
 
- Customers have been given ve ry small portion out of a large tract of the land and the 
consideration is said to have been taken in cash on the date of the sale deed execution, 
which bears a common survey number.  I note that PACL has sold only a portion of 
land to its customers out of one huge piece of land which bears a common khasra/ 
survey number. 
- In the schedule of the property, only boundary details with serial number of the adjoining 
plots have been given. The schedule does not specifically identify the plot given to the 
customers. The sale deeds do not have the diagram depicting the demarcation of the 
plots sold/ map for the ease of identification of the plot. The above findings are in 
contrast with the submission of PACL that the plots are adequately described in the sale 
deeds. 
 
PACL in its submissions has said that the practices of entering into 'joint sale deeds' has 
been discontinued since the year 2000. It has also been submitted that the sale deeds 
registered in favour of the customers pertain to their share in an un -partitioned agricultural 
land and hence the plot allotted to such customers are surrounded by other plots. The 
agreement forming part of the sample application form as discussed elaborately contain the 
following under the heading 'Sale of Plot':  
"... Since fragm entation into smaller size of plot(s)/ lands may not be practicable, feasible or 
permissible under the relevant Revenue laws, the customer shall have the requisite share along with 
other allottees/ transferees in a particular joint holding with other custo mers. Accordingly, symbolic 
possession of the plots shall be handed over to the customer immediately after Registration of the 
relevant sale deed so as to enable PACL to implement the agreement during the relevant period ... ... 
The right, title and interest of the customer to the land herein demised, shall remain inviolate, subject 
to the reciprocal rights and obligations of the customer herein and PACL."  
 
Further, PACL has also submitted that only symbolic possession of plots are handed over 
to the customers as fragmentation of land/ plot into smaller sizes may not be practical or 
permissible under the applicable revenue laws.  I note that PACL in the sale deed has not 
mentioned how the customers will access/ use such un-partitioned agricultural land.  
 
A reading of the above observations on the sample of documents submitted by PACL 
gives an inference that the transaction of PACL are not simple real estate transaction or 
land sale/ purchase transaction. While proceeding further, I also note that PACL vide its 
letter dated May 10, 2013 , had submitted ten copies of different executed agreements, 
application forms, allotment letters, executed and registered sale deeds. The allotment letter 
in such samples contained the  khasra number and plot number along with v illage, tehsil, 

--- PDF PAGE 76 ---
Page 76 of 92 
 
district and State name. A perusal of the respective sale deed shows that the plot number as 
mentioned in the allotment letter is not there in the sale deed.  
 
m. Commissions paid by PACL and its financials:  While proceeding further with the 
matter, I note that the SCN has alleged that a large proportion of the amount received as 
advances from customers by PACL is used towards payment of commissions and 
incentives to its agents. PACL in its reply has admitted that for carrying out its business , it 
uses agents and pays commissions to these and the field associates also who are appointed 
by agents. PACL in its reply has submitted that in CDPP, it pays commission @ 10.50% to 
12.50% of the total consideration paid by the customer depending upon the duration of the 
plans. In IPP, it pays commissions from advances received from customers through several 
years and the same is in the range of 6.6% to 10.25%. It has also been said that the total 
customer advance and the prepaid commission upto March 31, 2 012 is ₹ 44,736.23 crores 
and ₹ 8,874.15 crores respectively. The calculation of percentage of prepaid commission to 
customer advances comes to around 19.83%. PACL has further submitted that the 
commission paid upto March 31, 2012 is ₹ 7,893.80 crores. I note that in simple real estate 
transaction, the commission is generally fixed on the cost of the land. However, in the 
instant case the payment of commission to the agents does not seem to be made on the 
basis of cost alone. Rather, the payment of 19.83% of t he total customer advances towards 
pre-paid commission suggest that the same was calculated on the basis of total amounts 
mobilized including the development charges also. However, it cannot be understood as to 
what role an agent can have in respect of dev elopment of land for which commission has 
been paid.  
 
I have seen the details of the commission paid by PACL to its agents as submitted during 
the investigation, the same has been reproduced as under: 
Table - H  
Financial year Amount Paid 
1996-1997 1,12,23,818.86 
1997-1998 6,00,46,682.88 
1998-1999 6,51,90,054.53 
1999-2000 6,18,05,900.28 
2000-2001 10,31,33,043.45 
2001-2002 19,48,00,742.68 
2002-2003 31,24,87,763.87 
2003-2004 45,13,59,663.53 
2004-2005 107,33,42,001.05 
2005-2006 364,14,00,910.72 

--- PDF PAGE 77 ---
Page 77 of 92 
 
2006-2007 657,75,16,858.12 
2007-2008 950,00,04,002.94 
2008-2009 1118,22,17,766.22 
2009-2010 1285,21,04,794.64 
2010-2011 1731,74,64,064.83 
2011-2012 1553,39,30,463.93 
                            
By the own admission of PACL, the major source of revenue (more than 90%) is from the 
sale of land. In this regard, I note that PACL has collected funds under the CDPP and IPP 
plan and as stated earlier has allotted land to around 1.2 crore customers . The head 'sale of 
land' in the balance sheet, covers the funds from such customers of PACL who according 
to it had applied for a plot of land and opted for the plan of CDPP and IPP . However,  it 
has executed only 19,284 sale deeds. Although PACL shows the funds collected from its 
customers (including the customer adva nces) under the head 'sale of land', it actually allots the 
land to its customers and transfer the actual rights only in negligible cases. Further, PACL 
vide its letter dated August 11, 2014, has submitted that it has collected another 
₹ 29,420.65 crore from 4,63,13,342 customers to whom it is yet to allot land.  
 
PACL in its submission has argued that the amount of ₹ 4,182.14 crore  (i.e. pre-paid 
commissions and other expenses as on March 31, 2012) as alleged in the SCN,  includes 
other it ems like pre -paid expenses, rest advances, etc. I note from the asset details as 
mentioned in the balance sheet as on March 31, 2012, of PACL that the pre -paid 
commission and incentives are treated as  'loans and advances and other assets'. It is seen 
that as on March 31, 2012, 'the loans and advances and other assets' (i.e. ₹ 9,350.33 crore) 
include ₹ 4,182.14 crore, i.e., the prepaid commission and other expenses (i.e. more than 
40% of loans and advances and other assets) which is a very high amount in proportion to 
the total sales value.   
 
A perusal of the balance sheet of P ACL also shows that certain amounts are appearing as 
prepaid commission / expenses. Mr. Gurmeet Singh, the Executive Director, Finance of 
PACL, in his statement dated May 15, 2013 has submitted that '... whenever we pay commission 
we book in pre -paid expens es and when actual sale is booked, we transfer this amount from pre -paid 
expenses to commission account, ... .' Such submission of the director of PACL is not in line with 
the practice followed by the normal real estate companies which pay to their agents only on 
bringing the customers. It has also not made clear as to when the actual sale is booked. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 78 ---
Page 78 of 92 
 
I note that PACL has paid the commissions in advance to its agents, the same is not in line 
with then general practices wherein the commissions are calculated  on the business 
brought out by an agent. The sequence of events suggests that PACL has released huge 
incentives to its agents, that too in advance. The above manner of incentivizing the agents 
suggests that PACL indulges in paying such huge commissions to  its agents in order to 
please them for getting more and more clients. More clients would mean, PACL has more 
money (i.e., investments) at its disposal. 
 
n. Lists of Customers: I further note the submission of PACL that it maintains the list of 
active custome rs only and does not keep any record of the earlier customers, whose 
agreement tenures have expired either in terms of the  plan or on termination by PACL . 
There were lot of cases where  the customers had chosen to opt out by themselves. 
According to PACL, it is practically impossible for it to maintain the data of all the 
customers since the inception of the company, more so for those customers whose 
agreement tenure has expired. Further, it has also been said that there is no necessity for 
PACL to maintain plan-wise data.  
 
PACL requested SEBI to grant a reasonable time for submitting other lists  such as list of 
total customers and separate lists of customers who have opted for CDPP/ IPP plan, 
customers who have opted for developing the plot themselves  etc., considering the work 
involved. However, PACL has been mobilizing money from public and the scheme of 
PACL were alleged to be in nature of CIS since 1996. PACL has been litigating before 
various fora on this issue and the numbers and details of its custom ers are vital and crucial 
in deciding the nature of its activities. Therefore, I fail to understand how PACL has 
chosen not to keep the relevant details till date.  
 
o. Proposal of PACL filed pursuant to the personal hearing dated July 12, 2014 : PACL 
through its advocates has submitted a proposal f or repayment dated August 11, 2014, and 
submitted that it is engaged in two types of real estate businesses i.e. sale and purchase of 
agricultural plots as well as carrying out development activities pertaining to the agriculture 
on behalf of the customers to whom the plots of land are sold. It has been said that 
without prejudice to all the contentions and submissions made, in order to protect the 
interest of the customers and without getting into further litigation,  PACL is submitting a  
proposal for repayment of the money to the eligible customers.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 79 ---
Page 79 of 92 
 
PACL has also submitted that as on March 31, 2014, it  had 4,63,13,342 customers and an 
amount of ₹ 29,420.65 crore stands outstanding as against these. It has also been s aid that 
the value of total lands in the form of 'stock-in-trade' as on March 31, 2014 is ₹ 11,706.96 
crores which comprises of two categories: i.e. agricultural lands (₹ 7,322.11 crores ) and 
commercial lands (₹ 4,384.84 crores ). PACL has requested for a peri od of 5 years for 
execution of the repayment proposal.  
 
The company has only lands worth ₹ 11,706.96 crore [i.e. agricultural lands ( ₹ 7,322.11 
crores) and commercial lands (₹ 4,384.84 crores)] out of which it has not only to satisfy the 
claim of 4.63 crore customers who have deposited 29,420 crore with it but also to satisfy 
1.22 crore customers to whom the land has been allotted but sale deeds have not been 
executed. Further, PACL has also not given the complete details of the land it claims to 
hold. In view of the above, the proposal does not appear to be serious and reasonable. 
 
p. Land holding of PACL: PACL is not the registered owner of all the plots sold to its 
customers as the seller of the plots in majority of the cases are entities other than PACL. In 
this regard, Mr. Sukhdev Singh in his statement dated May 14, 2013 submitted that 'The land 
stated in the balance sheet is owned by the PACL, through registered sale deed/ General Power of 
Attorney/ agreement to Sale and associates of the company with whom the company has entered into MoU, 
for which the company is also paying the custodian charges for holding the land by those companies in favor 
of PACL.'  
 
Year-wise details of the land purchased by PACL , holding through registered sale deed , 
general p ower o f attorney, agreement to sale and through its associate companies with 
whom it has entered into Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)  are as under: 
Table - I  
 (Area in acres) 
Year Direct holding 
through Sale 
Deed 
(A) 
Holding through General 
Power of Attorney/ 
agreement to sale 
(B) 
Holding through 
Associate 
Companies 
(C) 
% of direct holding 
by PACL to the total 
land purchased 
(A/A+B+C x 100) 
2005-06 243.8436 13733.8874 - 1.74 
2006-07 37776.9900 18286.1744 - 67.38 
2007-08 2615.4976 11668.3945 744.3532 17.4 
2008-09 10058.0998 47816.2024 13286.7797 14.13 
2009-10 1327.1698 50156.3718 4528.8882 2.3 
2010-11 704.7548 44426.3894 13618.1568 1.19 
2011-12 1164.33 28851.76 3314.13 3.49 
 

--- PDF PAGE 80 ---
Page 80 of 92 
 
From the above, it is noted that PACL has very limited stock of lands in its name and that 
most of the lands are held through General Power of Attorney/ through Agreement to 
Sale/ through associate companies. PACL in its reply has informed that the said associate 
companies are controlled by its friends and nears and dears of the management of PACL. I 
observe that PACL enters into an MoU with the associate companies for the purchase of 
land. The MoU inter-alia, states that as PACL is unable to purchase the land in its own 
name beyond certain limits due to the land laws and other applic able laws of the land in 
different States of the country , PACL has nominated the associate company to purchase 
the land for PACL and get the sale deed executed in the name of associate company.  
 
Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Executive Director, Finance of PACL, in his statement dated May 15, 
2013 has said that "We do not hold some of the land in our name due to land ceiling laws of different 
states. The purchase consideration of the land is paid by PACL directly to the seller/ vendor and the 
associate companies are holding the title of the land on behalf of PACL under custodian agreement and the 
land is in the possession of PACL that is why the same is shown as stock in trade. The associate 
companies are controlled by the friends and nears and dears of the management of PACL. The land which 
is held by these companies is protected by custodian agreement and the custodian charges are paid to these 
companies. In the event of any dispute, this custodian agreement will be the support for PACL to claim the 
land or money from  the associate companies. Money goes directly to the seller from PACL and not to the 
associate companies. There are around 250 associate companies."  
 
From the above discussion, I find that there is a clear admission by PACL and its directors 
that it has made arrangements to purchase the land through its 250 associate companies, in 
order to circumvent the applicable laws of land ceilings as it could not have held such huge 
stock of land through its direct holding. It is a matter of serious concern for the S tate 
Authorities as well and a reference in this regard is required to forwarded  to the concerned 
State Authorities. 
 
q. I note from the agreement that PACL shall pay the land tax and other public dues/ levies, 
payable in respect of the plot to the appropriat e authorities for and on behalf of the 
customer and the company shall be entitled to get the same reimbursed from the customer. 
As per the agreement, PACL shall be entitled to get the same reimbursed out of the net 
sale proceeds which is the 'Net Estimated Realizable Value' at end of term in accordance 
with the said plan.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 81 ---
Page 81 of 92 
 
I note from the sample submitted by PACL that PACL has at the end of the term returned 
the amount to its customers which is equivalent to the 'estimated realizable value' as 
mentioned in the ledger of the said customer. An analysis of the same shows that the land 
tax and other public dues have not been adjusted in the amount paid to the customers.  
 
r. I also observe from the details of the plans operated by PACL that the costs of all the plots 
offered by PACL are almost the same. It needs to be considered that the value of each  
piece of land usually varies on the basis of its location and quality. However, in view of the 
facts and circumstances of the present case, I find that the schemes operated by PACL give 
a picture that the land is being sold as a ho mogeneous commodity at a fixed price, which is 
possible only if the land transactions are a sham and a cover for running a CIS scheme and 
not a genuine sale of agricultural land.  At this junc ture, I would also like to examine 
whether the schemes promoted by PACL passes the credulity test. It is difficult for me to 
believe that a person in Uttar Pradesh will purchase 100 -150 yds. of agricultural land 2,000 
kilometers away. The lack of maintenan ce of proper records/ data is a clear indication that 
the activities of PACL are in the nature of ponzi scheme. 
 
s. From the above, I conclude as under: 
i. The customer while applying authorizes PACL for development/ maintenance, without 
which agreement will not  be entered with the customer/ investor.  In the words of 
PACL, the contract of transfer of plot and development of plot are non -severable. The 
customer only gets a right to give suggestions 
ii. The plot of land is not identified either in the application form cum agreement or in the 
registration letter which are the primary documents. The only document which 
mentions the plot of land is the allotment letter, however, there is no mechanism to 
precisely identify the land, at this stage also. 
iii. PACL has disbursed large amounts to its agents, under the head 'pre-paid commission'. 
iv. PACL statedly gives the un -partitioned land to its customers, which appears to be of no 
effective use to the customers mainly for the two reasons, the first being the size of the 
plot which is very small for any kind of agriculture activity, secondly, the land is far off 
from the places where the customers of PACL are ordinarily residing. 
v. PACL has designed the schemes in such a way that the customers will never ask for the 
possession of its plot of land from the company.  
t. Having considered the above nature of the business activities carried out by PACL, I need 
to consider the same in the backdrop of the charges levelled in the SCN i.e., PACL is 

--- PDF PAGE 82 ---
Page 82 of 92 
 
operating CISs without obtaining a certificate of registration, in terms of Section 12(1B) of 
the SEBI Act read with Regulation 3 of the CIS Regulation, from SEBI. Any schemes in 
order to be called a  CIS, has to satisfy the four conditions mentioned in Section 11AA(2) 
of the SEBI. Let us examine whether t he nature of business of PACL would qualify as a 
CIS and the schemes floated by it satisfy all the four conditions prescribed under Section 
11AA(2) of the SEBI Act: 
 
- The first condition, under Section 11AA(2), is that the contributions or payments made 
by the investors, by whatever name called, are pooled and utilised for the purposes of the 
scheme or arrangement . In the instant case, as detailed above , PACL collects the money 
from customers/ investors against the purported s ale of a plot/ land . The application 
form and the agreement are the primary documents taken by PACL from a customer for 
subscribing to its schemes. As detailed above, the application form and the agreement 
contains the clauses that the customer is applying for plot of agricultural land a nd for 
development and maintenance of the same by PACL.  I note that the customer cannot 
enter into an agreement unless he/ she enters into development agreement with PACL.  
 
As already observed that PACL at the stage of application form and agreement do no t 
identify the land to be sold to the applicant. On the contrary, the 'agreement' states that 
PACL is in the process of 'making arrangements for purchasing/ procuring the land' . A 
reading of this and the discussion in above paragraphs suggests that PACL on the date of 
application/ agreement is only making arrangements for procuring the land.  
 
It is observed that the registration letter also does not identify the land or even the 
specific State where the land will be allotted. It only provides for the plot size. The 
registration letter also provides for the 'expected value' of the land which has not yet been 
allotted and as such the  location of plot/ land is undisclosed. From the available records, 
I observe that while allotting the land to the customers vid e the allotment letter, PACL 
reserves its r ight to change the location of the allotment  of land. The discussion on this 
right of PACL to change the location has been elaborately discussed above. 
 
PACL has argued that the customers would not have any cause for concern with regard 
to the change of location as the land would be uniformly barren at the acquisition stage.  I 
note that by its own admission, PACL has said that under the CDPP plan , the land is 
allotted to the customers within a period, generally no t exceeding 270 days from the date 
of receipt of the consideration, while under the IPP the land is allotted within a period, 

--- PDF PAGE 83 ---
Page 83 of 92 
 
generally not exceeding 90 days from the date of receipt of 50% of the consideration 
amount. It can thus be inferred that PACL doe s not identify any specific land to a 
customer till the stage of allotment.  
 
The above discussed facts suggests that PACL  pools the investment made by the 
customers, with an aim/ object of carrying out the overall scheme/ arrangement. It is 
clear that the application form/ agreement/ registration letter does not mention about the 
location of the land which is being sold to the customers. There is no physical transfer of 
land happening as discussed in detail in the above paragraphs.  
 
From the foregoing, it becomes clear that PACL pools in the money of customers for the 
purposes of the scheme i.e., for procuring the land. T hus, satisfying the first condition as 
stipulated in Section 11AA(2)(i) of the SEBI Act. 
 
- The second condition, is that the contributions  or payments are made to such scheme or 
arrangement by the investors with a view to receive profits, income, produce or property, 
whether movable or immovable, from such scheme or arrangement. In this regard, I note 
that the contribution/ payments are made by customers to PACL.  
 
PACL has argued that it does not promise any 'assured return'/ 'profit' to its customers. 
As per it the estimated realizable value is a benchmark value which the customers use at 
the time of sale to third parties. It has also been said that none of its customers has till 
date sold their land at a value below the estimated realizable value. PACL has submitted 
that the 'expected value'/ 'estimated realizable value' is the price which land commands 
on completion of the development acti vities. I note that PACL has provided the criteria 
for finding out the 'expected value'/ 'estimated realizable value' as discussed in detail in 
the above paragraphs and has submitted that there is no specific method for determining 
the estimated value of l and. Without prejudice to determining whether PACL provides 
assured returns or not, the mere promise of expected value higher than amount invested 
makes it clear that contributions are made with a view of earning profits. 
 
From the above, it is clear that the customer of PACL makes contribution/ payment with 
a view to receive the profits, income and returns on their initial investments  that may 
accrue to them as applicable, thus attracting the second condition as stipulated in Section 
11AA(2)(ii) of the SEBI Act. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 84 ---
Page 84 of 92 
 
- The third condition  is that the property, contribution or investment forming part of 
scheme or arrangement, whether identifiable or not, is managed on behalf of the 
investors.  
 
It is the admission of PACL itself that the customer who invest their money with PACL 
are mandatorily required to give the right of development and maintenance in favour of 
PACL. I note that the said authority is given to PACL by the customers vide the 
application form and registration letter itself . From the same, one can say that an investor 
gets only an undivided interest in the stock of land and the same cannot be identified . 
The customer does not manage his investments in the scheme rather his investments are 
managed and utilized by PACL. Thus, it is clear that the land as mentioned in the 
allotment letter is  not managed by the customers at any stage of the scheme. The same 
therefore, satisfies the third condition as stipulated in Section 11AA(2)(iii) of the SEBI 
Act. 
 
- The fourth and last condition is that the investors do not have day to day control over the 
management and operation of the scheme or arrangement. As stated above, PACL 
obtains the authority from its customers for development and maintenance of the plots 
of land. From the discussion, it is clear that the la nd remains in the possession of PACL.  
PACL provides irrigation system which is part of the overall irrigation system. It employs 
its own technical experts, advisors and such other personnel for the purpose of carrying 
out its obligations. It keeps the responsibility for arranging the sale of the produce, if any, 
out of the said property. The customer does not have any claim over the common 
facilities provided by PACL, such as, irrigation pipelines, drainage systems and electrical 
lines etc. even after the execution of sale deeds. In the absence of such facilities it will not 
be possible for the customer to use its land for cultivation. Further, it may not be that 
easy to install such infrastructure by the customer.  
 
By stating in the agreement that 'PACL shall have the right to develop and maintain the 
property and the customer shall not ordinarily interfere', PACL admits that t he 
contribution/ investment by customers and the plot of land are managed by PACL 
statedly on behalf of its customers. I note that the customers do not have any role in their 
management. This makes it clear that the customer does not have day to day control over 
the land as the same remained in the custody/ use of PACL which satisfies the fourth and 
last condition as stipulated in Section 11AA(2)(iv) of the SEBI Act.  

--- PDF PAGE 85 ---
Page 85 of 92 
 
 
u. The main argument put forth by PACL is that it is running a real estate business and not a 
CIS. Out of the sample of 500 customers selected randomly from the list of customers  
provided by PACL, who according to it were al lotted land in the year 2005 -2006, not a 
single customer had finally received the land even after the passage of more than eight (8) 
years. This shows clearly that the real estate business is only a facade for running a CIS. 
 
PACL has also argued that the fact that Justice K. Swamidurai has found 19,284 sale deeds 
executed by PACL as genuine and the same proves that the Company is running a genuine 
real estate business.  For the purposes of this order, the genuineness or otherwise of the 
said 19,284 sale dee ds is not the issue , which anyway have been taken as genuine , having 
been verified by Justice K. Swamidurai.  
 
The issue is whether PACL is running a CIS with its 5,85,40,150 customers [i.e. 1,22,26,808 
customers (admission as per letter dated April 18, 20 13) + 4,63,13,342 customers 
(admission as per the proposal dated August 11, 2014) - 19,284 customers (for whom sale 
deeds have been executed)], whose money has been collected, without transferring any 
rights in the land or even identifying the plot of land that they may ultimately own. 
 
v. I find it necessary to place my reliance on the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court, in the 
matter of PGF Limited Vs. Union of India & Ors.: 
"Therefore, the paramount object of the Parliament in enacting the SEBI Act itself an d in 
particular the addition of Section 11AA was with a view to protect the gullible investors most of 
whom are poor and uneducated or retired personnel or those who belong to middle income group and 
who seek to invest their hard earned retirement benefits  or savings in such schemes with a view to 
earn some sustained benefits or with the fond hope that such investment will get appreciated in course 
of time. Certain other Section of the people who are worstly affected are those who belong to the 
middle income group who again make such investments in order to earn some extra financial benefits 
and thereby improve their standard of living and on very many occasions to cater to the need of the 
educational career of their children. 
38. Since it was noticed in the  early 90s that there was mushroom growth of attractive schemes or 
arrangements, which persuaded the above vulnerable group getting attracted towards such schemes 
and arrangements, which weakness was encashed by the promoters of such schemes and arrangemen ts 
who lure them to part with their savings by falling as a prey to the sweet coated words of such frauds, 
the Parliament thought it fit to introduce Section 11AA in the Act in order to ensure that any such 
scheme put to public notice is not intended to de fraud such gullible investors and also to monitor the 
operation of such schemes and arrangements based on the regulations framed under Section 11AA 
of the Act….. 
40. It will have to be stated with particular reference to the activity of the PGF Limited, na mely, 
sale and development of agricultural land as a collective investment scheme, the implication of Section 
11AA was not intended to affect the development of agricultural land or any other operation 

--- PDF PAGE 86 ---
Page 86 of 92 
 
connected therewith or put any spokes in such sale -cum-development of such agricultural land. It has 
to be borne in mind that by seeking to cover any scheme or arrangement by way of collective 
investment scheme either in the field of agricultural or any other commercial activity, the purport is 
only to ensure  that the scheme providing for investment in the form of rupee, anna or paise gets 
registered with the authority concerned and the provision would further seek to regulate such schemes 
in order to ensure that any such investment based on any promise under the scheme or arrangement is 
truly operated upon in a lawful manner and that by operating such scheme or arrangement the person 
who makes the investment is able to really reap the benefit and that he is not defrauded………… 
It is, therefore, apparent that all  other schemes/arrangements operated by all others, namely, other 
than those who are governed by sub-section 3 of Section 11AA are to be controlled in order to ensure 
proper working of the scheme primarily in the interest of the investors. 
… 
42. Therefore,  in reality what sub -section (2) of Section 11AA intends to achieve is only to 
safeguard the interest of the investors whenever any scheme or arrangement is announced by such 
promoters by making a thorough study of such schemes and arrangements before regi stering such 
schemes with the SEBI and also later on monitor such schemes and arrangements in order to ensure 
proper statutory control over such promoters and whatever investment made by any individual is 
provided necessary protection for their investments in the event of such schemes or arrangements either 
being successfully operated upon or by any misfortune happen to be abandoned, where again there 
would be sufficient safeguards made for an assured refund of investments made, if not in full, at least 
a part of it. 
……………In the light of our above conclusions on this ground it will have to be held that Section 
11AA is a valid provision, not suffering from any infirmity, as it does not intrude into the specific activities 
of sale of agricultural land and its development. 
 
w. Considering the above discussion, it can be satisfactorily said that the transactions between 
PACL and its customers are not real estate transactions simpliciter, and they satisfy all the 
ingredients of a CIS as defined under Section 11AA of the SEBI Act. It is clear that the 
business run by the PACL is nothing but that of a CIS. Thus, PACL has violated Section 
12(1)(B) of the SEBI Act read with Regulations 5, 68, 69 of the CIS Regulations, by not 
applying for registration with SEBI as a CIS a nd also launching new schemes/ plans, 
raising money under such schemes/ plans.  
 
35. At this stage, I note the noticees namely Mr. Gurmeet Singh and, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya 
have stated that SEBI at the stage of current SCN has to decide only on the issue whe ther 
the business PACL falls within the purview of CIS or not; depending on the outcome of 
such issue SEBI can proceed to take further action in accordance with law.  It has also been 
argued by the said noticees that any coercive action can follow in the pr oceedings initiated 
later-on.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 87 ---
Page 87 of 92 
 
In this regard, the relevant portion from the Order dated February 26, 2013 of the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court of India is reproduced below: 
"4. ... ..., it was suggested to the learned counsel whether the impugned orders of the a ppellant dated 
30.11.1999 and 10.12.1999 themselves can be treated as show cause notices and an opportunity to 
be extended afresh to the first respondent company before passing final orders on the question as to 
whether or not the business of the first res pondent company will fall within the category of Collective 
Investment Scheme (hereinafter being referred to as "CIS"). Further, depending upon the outcome of 
any such fresh orders to be passed by the appellant, further proceedings can be initiated by the 
appellant in accordance with law.  
 
5. To the above suggestion, the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents readily agreed. 
Learned counsels appearing for the appellant however, submitted that the appellant should have full 
cooperation from th e first respondent Company, that appellant should be in a position to make an 
inspection, investigation, and inquiry of the first respondent Company, that it should have access to 
the verification of the records with the assistance of Auditors and only the reafter, the appellant would 
be in a position to issue any comprehensive show cause notice supplementing the proceedings dated 
30.11.1999 and 10.12.1999. ... ... Learned counsel submitted that the appellant would require 
not less than three months' time to  carry out the exercise and issue the supplementary show cause 
notice. Further, though learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the first respondent 
Company should be restrained from mobilising any fresh records, it was made clear that such a 
blanket prohibition cannot be issued, instead in the event of mobilisation of any fresh funds, the first 
respondent company would furnish the details of those transactions also to the appellant when the 
appellant proceed to hear the first respondent Company and before passing any fresh orders. 
... ... 
 
8. We also make it clear that the appellant shall pass fresh orders as regards the business activity of 
the first respondent company as to whether it falls under the category of CIS or not and depending 
upon the u ltimate order to be passed it may proceed further in accordance with law. The appellant 
shall before taking any future action give prior notice to the first respondent company."    
 
From the above, it is noted that Hon'ble Supreme Court of India has remand ed the matter 
back to SEBI and directed SEBI to determine afresh 'whether the business of the PACL 
falls under the category of CIS?' The order further states that depending upon the final 
order to be passed by SEBI, further proceedings can be initiated by it in accordance with 
law.  
 
I note that the issue framed, w hether PACL is operating a CIS without obtaining 
registration from SEBI , has been elaborately dealt with in paragraph 34 above. The 
natural consequences of operating an unauthorised CIS activity w ould be to immediately 
prevent the entity from continuing with such activity and to direct that entity to refund 
monies collected under its unauthorised CIS activity with promised returns to its 
customers. The same shall be followed in this case also. The above action is remedial and 
preventive in nature. Appropriately, penal and coercive action would ensue if the entity 
fails to comply with such remedial measures directed by SEBI. Accordingly, a s per the 

--- PDF PAGE 88 ---
Page 88 of 92 
 
procedure followed by SEBI in the quasi-judicial proceedings, SEBI is now duty bound in 
terms of Section 11 and 11B of the SEBI Act, in the interest of investors and orderly 
development of securities market to restrain PACL from continuing with its money 
mobilization schemes, wind up its schemes which are in the nature of CIS as determined in 
this order and direct PACL to refund the monies mobilized under such CISs with returns 
that were promised to the customers.  
 
At this stage, I note that during the course of personal hearing dated July 12, 2014, PACL 
has even submitted a draft proposal wherein it has inter alia proposed to discontinue all the 
existing schemes/ plan(s) and no new schemes/ plan(s) will be launched in future. The 
proposal also speaks about the repayments to the existing customers  and for th e same 
PACL has requested for a period of five long years. 
 
By its own admission of PACL, it does not have enough land bank compared to the 
amount mobilized by it from the customer. I note that PACL had 4,63,13,342 customers as 
on March 31, 2014 who have n ot been allotted land. The outstanding dues to such 
customers as on March 31, 2014 is ₹ 29,420.65 crore and the value of total lands i n the 
form of 'stock-in trade ' as on March 31, 2014 is ₹ 11,706.96 crore. As discussed , PACL 
does not have assets corresponding to the amounts of monies raised by it from public. In 
view of the above, I reject the proposal of PACL. 
 
36. After having found that the activities of PACL are in the nature of CIS, it becomes 
important to determine the liability of its directors – both past and present. The SCNs have 
been issued to Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh, Mr. Gurnam Singh  (R/o P.O. Singh Bhagwant 
Pur), Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, Mr. Gurnam 
Singh (R/o P.O. Wazidpur) , Mr. Uppal Devinder Kumar, Mr. Tyger Joginder, Mr. Gurmeet 
Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya . As regards the above perso ns; the following table 
provides the details regarding the period of their directorship in PACL:  
Table - J 
Name Date of appointment Date of ceasing 
Anand Gurwant Singh 13-02-1996 16-09-1996 
Gurnam Singh 13-02-1996 07-01-1997 
Tarlochan Singh 13-02-1996 N. A. 
Sukhdev Singh 03-06-1996 N. A. 
Bhangoo Nirmal Singh 03-06-1996 03-02-1998 
Gurnam Singh 10-01-1998 05-02-2009 
Uppal Devinder Kumar 10-08-1998 29-09-1998 
Tyger Joginder 05-09-2005 31-12-2008 

--- PDF PAGE 89 ---
Page 89 of 92 
 
Gurmeet Singh 01-02-2009 N. A. 
Subrata Bhattacharya 01-02-2009 N. A. 
 
a. From the above table, I note that  Mr. Tarlochan Singh and Mr. Sukhdev Singh were 
appointed as directors of PACL during 1996.  The said persons still continue as its directors. 
Mr. Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya were appointed as the directors of PACL 
during the year 2009  and still continue as its directors. The aforesaid 4 persons are the 
directors of PACL as on date.  Therefore, they are liable and responsible for the violations 
committed by PACL in running CISs without obtaining registration from SEBI as required 
under law.    
 
b. Mr. Tyger Joginder and Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o Wazidpur) have resigned during the years 
2008 and 2009 respectively.  Mr. Tyger Joginder (appointed as a director on September 05, 
2005) has submitted that he did not attend any board meetings and was not responsible for 
any action of the company which was not done with his consent. In my opinion not 
attending board meetings does not absolve a director from his responsibility. Mr. Gurnam 
Singh, vide letter date d July 24, 2013 , has submitted that he was associated with PACL 
only for the period between January 10, 1998 and February 05, 2009. However, in his 
written submission dated July 01, 2014 , he has contended that he was  not aware as to 
when he was appointed a nd relieved as director of PACL.  The above submissions are 
contrary to each other. In view of the above, Mr. Tyger Joginder  and Mr. Gurnam Singh 
(R/o Wazidpur) are liable and responsible for the violations committed by PACL in running 
CISs without obtaining registration from SEBI as required under law, during the period 
when they were the directors. 
 
c. From the above table, I also note that the noticee, Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh  has 
resigned in the year 1996. The directors/noticees, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo and Mr. 
Uppal Devinder Kumar have resigned during 1998. Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh was the 
director of PACL since incorporation . As regards Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo and Mr. 
Uppal Devinder Kumar, I note that these had resigned only after the press releases issued 
by Government of India and SEBI. In addition to the same, I also note that Mr. Nirmal 
Singh Bhangoo had an important role to play in the affairs of PACL i.e. of an advisor. In 
view of the same, these three noticees are liable and responsible for the viol ations 
committed by PACL in running CISs without obtaining registration from SEBI as required 
under law, during the period when they were the directors. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 90 ---
Page 90 of 92 
 
d. I note that Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o P.O. Singh Bhagwant Pur)  had ceased to be a 
director of PACL since January 07, 1997, on account of his death. In this regard, I have 
seen the relevant 'form 32'.  Accordingly, taking note of the same, the proceedings in 
respect of Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o P.O. Singh Bhagwant Pur) stands abated.  
 
37. PACL Customer Association has requested that the interests of the customers should be 
kept in mind and SEBI's order should not adversely affect their interests. The entire 
exercise undertaken by SEBI is for protecting the  customers by ordering th at their monies 
be returned with returns that are promised by PACL Limited and due to them. However, 
keeping in mind that there might be some customers who have entered into some land 
transaction with PACL and there transactions have been certified to be g enuine by Justice 
K. Swamidurai. I therefore direct that nothing contained in this order will affect the sale 
deeds which have been certified as genuine by Justice K. Swamidurai . The request made by 
PACL Customer Association is accordingly disposed off.  
 
DIRECTIONS 
 
38. In view of the observations made in this Order, I, in compliance with the directions of the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court, in exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Section 19 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, hereby find  that the 
business/activities/schemes/plans offered and operated by PACL are Collective 
Investment Schemes, satisfying all the ingredients specified under Section 11AA of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. The natural consequences of suc h 
findings would be to inter alia direct PACL and its directors and promoters to refund the 
monies, which have been collected in an unauthorized manner, with promised returns to 
investors. Accordingly, I, in exercise of the powers conferred upon me under S ection 19 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992  and Sections 11, 11B and 
11(4) thereof read with Regulatio n 65 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999, hereby issue the following directions: 
 
a. PACL Limited [PAN: AAACP4032A], its promoters and directors including Mr. Tarlochan 
Singh [PAN: AIEPS9489Q], Mr. Sukhdev Singh [PAN: AUGPS0130B], Mr. Gurmeet Singh 
[PAN: AAMPS1400Q] and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya  [PAN: AAIPB6480H], shall abstain 
from collecting any money from investors or launch or carry out any Col lective Investment 
Schemes including the scheme s which have been identified as a Collective Investment 
Scheme in this Order. 

--- PDF PAGE 91 ---
Page 91 of 92 
 
 
b. PACL Lim ited, its promoters and directors including Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev 
Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya , shall wind up all the existing 
Collective Investment Schemes of PACL Limited and refund the mon ies collected by the 
said company under its schemes with returns which are due to its investors as per the terms 
of offer within a period of three months from the date of this Order  and thereafter, within 
a period of fifteen days, submit a winding up and repayment report to SEBI in accordance 
with the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes ) Regulations, 1999, including the trail of 
funds claimed to be refunded, bank account statements indicating refund to the investors 
and receipt from the investors acknowledging such refunds. 
 
c. PACL Limited  and its directors, including Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. 
Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya are also directed to immediately submit the 
complete and detailed inventory of the assets owned by PACL Limited.  
 
d. PACL Limited, its promoters and directors including Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev 
Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh and Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya, shall not alienate or dispose off or 
sell any of the assets of PACL Limited except for the purpose of making refunds to its 
investors as directed above. 
 
e. In the event of failure by PACL Limit ed and its directors/ promoters to comply with the 
above directions, the following actions shall follow: 
-   PACL Limited and its directors, including Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. Sukhdev Singh, Mr. 
Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacharya, Mr. Anand Gurwant Sing h, Mr. Nirmal Singh 
Bhangoo, Mr. Uppal Devinder Kumar, Mr. Tyger Joginder  and Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o 
Wazidpur) shall immediately ( on expiry of the three months period available for making refunds ) 
be restrained from accessing the securities market and would further be prohibited from 
buying, selling or otherwise dealing in securities market till all the Collective Investment 
Schemes of PACL Limited are wound up and all the monies mobilized through such 
schemes are refunded to its investors with returns which are due to them. 
- SEBI would make a reference to the State Government/  Local Police to register a civil/ 
criminal case against PACL Limited , its promoters, directors and its managers/ persons 
in-charge of the business and its schemes , for offences of frau d, cheating, criminal 
breach of trust and misappropriation of public funds; and 
- SEBI would make a reference to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, to initiate the process 
of winding up of the company, PACL Limited. 

--- PDF PAGE 92 ---
Page 92 of 92 
 
- Without prejudice to the above, SEBI shall  also initiate attachment and recovery 
proceedings under the SEBI Act and rules and regulations framed thereunder.  
 
f. Further, for the reasons stated abov e in this Order, the SCN issued in respect of Mr. 
Gurnam Singh (R/o P.O. Singh Bhagwant Pur) is disposed off without any directions. 
 
39. The above directions shall come into force with immediate effect.  
  
40. The Hon'ble Supreme Court has also directed SEBI to proceed further in accordance with 
law if PACL is found to be carrying on CISs. Therefore, for the contr aventions as found in 
this Order and the contravention of Regulation 4(2)(t) of the SEBI (Prohibition of 
Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 , I 
advise SEBI to initiate appropriate proceedings under Sections 11(4) and 11B of the SEBI 
Act read with Regulation 65(e) of the CIS Regulations  and Chapter VI A of the SEBI Act 
against PACL Limited, its promoters and directors, including Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr. 
Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh, Mr. Subrata Bhattacha rya, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo 
[PAN: ACTPB6698L, DIN: 0031748 ], Mr. Tyger Joginder [DIN: 00694280], Mr. Gurnam 
Singh (R/o Wazidpur) [PAN: AOYPS3203H; DIN: 00498810], Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh 
and Mr. Uppal Devinder Kumar.  
 
41. The above action would be without p rejudice to the right of SEBI to initiate any action 
under law including prosecution proceedings under Section 24 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 , against PACL Limited, its promoters and directors, 
including Mr. Tarlochan Singh, Mr.  Sukhdev Singh, Mr. Gurmeet Singh , Mr. Subrata 
Bhattacharya, Mr. Nirmal Singh Bhangoo , Mr. Tyger Joginder Mr. Gurnam Singh (R/o 
Wazidpur), Mr. Anand Gurwant Singh and Mr. U ppal Devinder Kumar and those other 
persons who are in default, for the above violations. 
 
42. Copy of this Order shall be forwarded to recognized stock exchanges and depositories for 
information and necessary action.  
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
DATE  : AUGUST 22, 2014                                                       PRASHANT SARAN 
PLACE: KOLKATA                                                 WHOLE TIME MEMBER  
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  
 