
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
Page 1 of 46 
 
 
 
 
 
JUSTICE (RETD.) R.M. LODHA COMMITTEE  
(IN THE MATTER OF PACL LIMITED) 
 
 
 
 
 
SEBI BHAVAN, PLOT NO C4-A, G BLOCK, BANDRA KURLA 
COMPLEX, BANDRA EAST, MUMBAI – 400 051 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TENDER DOCUMENT FOR E-AUCTION-SALE OF PROPERTIES 
BENGALURU RURAL 
 
 
 
 
 
Tender Document No: JRMLC/KAR/BENRUR 
 
 
 
September 30, 2026 
  

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
Page 2 of 46 
DEFINITIONS  
 
Agency As defined in Clause 1.1 
Bidder As defined in Clause 2.5 
Bid Form As defined in Clause 2.8(i) 
Bidder’s Manual As defined in Clause 2.10(v) 
Committee As defined in Clause 1.1 
Company As defined in Clause 1.1 
Consortium As defined in Clause 2.5(i) 
EMD As defined in Clause 2.7(i) 
E-Auction Service Provider As defined in Clause 1.11 
Governmental Instrumentality As defined in Clause 2.5(i) 
Intimation As defined in Clause 2.13 
Lead Member As defined in Clause 2.5(ii) 
Notice of Sale As defined in Clause 2 
Order As defined in Clause 1.1 
Property(ies) As defined in Clause 1.1 
Portal As defined in Clause 1.11 
Proof of Address As defined in Clause 2.8(i) (d)  
Reserve Price As defined in Clause 2.4 
SEBI As defined in Clause 1.1 
Subsequent Orders As defined in Clause 1.10 (ii) 
Successful Bidder As defined in Clause 2.13 
Hon’ble Supreme Court As defined in Clause 1.1 
Technically Qualified Bidders As defined in Clause 2.9 (ii) 
Tender Document As defined in Clause 1.3 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
Page 3 of 46 
1. BACKGROUND AND IMPORTANT INFORMATION  
 
1.1 The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“ Hon’ble Supreme Court”), vide an order dated 
February 02, 2016 passed in Civil Appeal Nos. 13301/2015 titled Subrata Bhattacharya vs. 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  (“the Order”), directed the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (“ SEBI”) to constitute a committee for disposing of the land/ properties 
purchased by PACL Limited (“ the Company”) so that the sale p roceeds can be paid to the 
investors, who have invested their funds in the Company. The Hon’ble Supreme Court further 
directed that Hon’ble Shri Justice (Retd) R.M. Lodha, former Chief Justice of India, would be 
the Chairman of the said committee. The Justice (Retd) R.M. Lodha Committee (in the matter 
of PACL Limited), the committee so constituted by the SEBI (“the Committee”), has engaged 
the services of StockHolding Document Management Services Limited (“Agency”) to assist 
the Committee in connection with the sale of the Company’s properties specified in Annexure 
1 of the Tender Document (“the Properties”), through a tender platform on an ‘as is where is, 
whatever there is’ basis. The Committee is not the owner of the Properties.  The Committee 
reserves the right to take appropriate steps , including lodging criminal complaint with police/ 
Central Bureau of Investigation, if any person(s) are found acting in concert for the purpose of 
delaying or defeating the auction process as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. 
 
1.2 No person associated with PACL Limited in any manner whatsoever shall be permitted to bid. 
Bidders shall submit a declaration that they are not a ‘related party’ of PACL Limited and/ or 
its group/  associate companies and/  or its director (s), whether past or present , and/ or its 
promoter(s). For the purpose of this clause, ‘related party’ shall mean any individual or entity, 
including, but not limited to , a company, firm, partnership, agent, proprietorship, etc., in any 
manner connected directly or indirectly with and/  or controlled by PACL Limited and/ or its 
group/ associate companies and/  or its director (s), whether past or present , and/ or its 
promoter(s). In the event the Committee discovers or is of the opinion that Bidder is a ‘related 
party’ as aforesaid, the Committee shall be entitled to reject such Bidder’s bid and/ or terminate/ 
cancel the sale and to forfeit the EMD and/ or any other mon ies deposited by such Bidder 
without notice to the Bidder. 
 
1.3 The information contained in this tender  document for sale of the Properties (“ the Tender 
Document”) or subsequently provided to Bidder(s), in documentary or any other form by or on 
behalf of the Committee and/ or any of its advisors, is provided to Bidder(s) on the terms and 
conditions set out in the Tender Document. 
 
1.4 The Tender Document is neither an agreement nor an offer by the Committee to the prospective 
Bidders or any other person. The purpose of th e Tender Document is to provide interested 
parties with information that may be useful to them in making their bids pursuant to the Tender 
Document. The Tender Document may not be appropriate for all persons and it is not possible 
for the Committee and its advisors to consider the investment objectives, financial situation and 
particular needs of each party who reads or uses th e Tender Document. The assumptions, 
assessments, statements and information contained in th e Tender Document may not be 
complete, acc urate, adequate or correct. Each Bidder should, therefore, conduct its own 
investigations and analysis and should check the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, reliability 
and completeness of the assumptions, assessments, statements and information contained in the 
Tender Document and obtain independent advice from appropriate sources before submitting a 
bid. 
 
1.5 Information provided in the Tender Document to the Bidder(s) has been collated from several 
sources some of which may depend upon interpretation of appl icable law. The information 
given is not intended to be an exhaustive account of statutory requirements and should not be 
regarded as complete.  
 
1.6 The Committee and its advisors make no representation or warranty and shall have no liability 

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
Page 4 of 46 
to any person, i ncluding any Bidder under any law, statute, rules or regulations or tort, 
principles of restitution or unjust enrichment or otherwise for any loss, damages, cost or 
expense which may arise from or be incurred or suffered on account of anything contained in  
the Tender Document or otherwise, including the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, 
completeness or reliability of the Tender Document and any assessment, assumption, statement 
or information contained therein or deemed to form part of the Tender Document or arising in 
any way from participation in the tender process. 
 
1.7 The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, but without being under any obligation to do so, 
update, amend or supplement the information, process or assumptions contained in the Tender 
Document. 
 
1.8 The issue of the Tender Document does not imply that the Committee is bound to select a 
Bidder, Technically Qualified Bidder or Successful Bidder and the Committee reserves the right 
(without incurring any liability) to reject all or any of the Bidders, Technically Qualified Bidder 
or Successful Bidder or bids at its sole discretion. 
 
1.9 Each Bidder shall bear all its costs associated with or relating to the preparation and submission 
of its bid including but not limited to preparation, copying, po stage, delivery fees, expenses 
related to the submitting bids, expenses associated with any site visits, due diligence etc., if any, 
or any other costs incurred in connection with or relating to its bid including EMD. Should the 
Committee require any clarifications or further submissions or additional documents from the 
Bidder, the same shall also be provided/ submitted/ furnished by the Bidder in a timebound 
manner and the Bidder shall bear all costs associated with the providing/ submitting/ furnishing 
such further submissions or additional documents. 
 
1.10 The sale of the Properties will be conducted in terms of: 
 
(i) Order(s) of the Hon’ble Supreme Court; 
 
(ii) Orders dated April 05, 2016, July 25, 2016 and August 08, 2024 passed by the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No 13301/2015 together with any other subsequent 
order(s) that may be passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No 13301/ 
2015 titled Subrata Bhattacharya vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India and other 
connected matters (hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Subsequent Orders”); 
 
(iii) Provisions of applicable laws; and 
 
(iv) Terms and conditions of the Tender Document/ Notice of Sale. 
 
1.11 C1 India Private Limited  has been appointed as the tender service provider (“ E-Auction 
Service Provider”). The sale of the Properties will be on an ‘as is where is, whatever there 
is’ basis and shall be undertaken by the Agency for and on behalf of the Committee through the 
portal (“Portal”) provided on the website of the E-Auction Service Provider. Other details with 
respect to the tender process are as follows: 
 
Type of Bid 
 
E-Auction 
Committee Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha Committee (In the Matter of PACL Limited) 
 
Agency StockHolding Document Management Services Ltd. 
SHCIL House, P-51, T.T.C Industrial Area, M.I.D.C  
Mahape, Navi Mumbai- 400710 
Email ID:  pacl.eauction@stockholdingdms.com  
 

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
Page 5 of 46 
Name of E-Auction 
Service Provider 
C1 India Private Limited  
Plot No. 68, Sector 44, Gurugram- 122003, Haryana, India 
Contact Person: BankeAuctions  
 
Help Desk Mob: +91 7291981124 / 1125 / 1126 Support Desk 
Helpline No: +91-124-4302020 / 21 / 22 / 23 +91- 7291981124 / 
1125 / 1126 Email ID: support@bankeauctions.com 
Website of the E-
Auction Service 
Provider 
 
https://bankeauctions.com 
Annexures 1. Annexure 1 – Description of Properties 
 
2. Annexure 2 – Declaration by the Bidder(s)  
 
Instruction: This document is required to be duly filled in and signed 
by the Bidder themselves (in case of the Bidder being a resident  
Indian citizen, non-resident Indian or sole proprietorship), the karta 
(in case the Bidder is a Hindu Undivided Family) and the holder of 
the power of attorney (in case the Bidder is a partnership firm, 
limited liability partnership, company, trust, socie ty, Governmental 
Instrumentality or Consortium). The Bidder will then be required to 
take a print -out of the filled in form, sign the same and thereafter 
upload it on the Portal. 
 
3. Annexure 3 – Technical Terms and Conditions of Tender Process 
for Sale of Properties  
 
4. Annexure 4 – Format of Sale Certificate 
 
5. Annexure 5 – Format of Power of Attorney 
 
Instruction: This power of attorney is required to be furnished only 
in case of the following type of Bidders: 
(a) Partnership firm formed under the Indian Partnership Act, 
1932; 
(b) Limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008 
(c) Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013 
(d) Society registered/ set up under laws of India 
(e) Trust registered/ set up under laws of India 
(f) Governmental Instrumentality 
(g) Consortium whose Lead Member is an entity listed under (a) 
to (f) above.  
 
The Bidder will upload it on the Portal. 
 
6. Annexure 6 – Format of Joint Bidding Agreement 
 
7. Annexure 7 – Format of Power of Attorney for Lead Member 
 
Instruction: This power of attorney is required to be furnished only 
in case of a Consortium. The Bidder will upload it on the Portal. 
 
8. Annexure 8 – Treatment of Properties Auctioned as a Single Lot 
 

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
Page 6 of 46 
Special Instructions This bidding is a serious matter and last-minute bidding may lead to mistakes 
or lapses. Neither the E -Auction Service Provider nor the Agency nor the 
Committee will be responsible for any lapses/ failure on the part of the Bidder. 
 
 
1.12 All terms and conditions with respect to the sale of the Properties shall be governed by the 
directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the Order, the Subsequent Orders, approved process 
by the Committee, terms and conditions of the Tender Document/ Notice  of Sale and in 
accordance with the provisions of applicable laws. As mandated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court, 
the Committee shall exercise all rights with respect to sale of the Properties and it would be 
open to the Chairman of the Committee to appoint suc h experts or other persons, as thought 
necessary, in consultation with SEBI, so as to enable the sale of the Properties. 
 
1.13 In the Tender Document, capitalized terms shall, unless repugnant to the meaning or context 
thereof, have the meanings assigned to suc h terms in the body of the Tender Document or in 
the Annexures thereof. Any reference to the Tender  Document shall mean the Tender  
Document including its Annexures, any addenda or amendments to the Tender Document and/ 
or any other document issued pursuant hereto.  
 
1.14 The Annexures to the Tender Document shall form an integral part of the Tender Document 
and the Tender Document shall always be read in conjunction with the Annexures thereto. 
 
1.15 All the important notifications and communications relating to the t ender process will be 
intimated to the Bidders via e -mail in the e-mail IDs used by them at the time of registration, 
and Bidders are advised to check their e-mails regularly in this regard. 
 
1.16 The documents relating to the Properties shall be available on t he website 
https://bankeauctions.com and https://sebipaclproperties.com. 
  

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
Page 7 of 46 
2. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE TENDER PROCESS 
 
The sale of the Properties mentioned in the Tender Document and the Notice of Sale dated  
30.09.2026 (“Notice of Sale”) published by the Committee pursuant to the directions of the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court shall be subject to the following conditions and the conditions set out 
in Annexure 3. 
 
2.1 Nature and Object of the Tender Process  
 
(i) The online tender process is with the object of facilitating  a free, fair and transparent 
sale of the Properties and for achieving best-possible recovery of public money. 
 
(ii) The sale of the Properties will be conducted in terms of and in compliance with the 
Order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the Subsequent Orders and the approved process 
by the Committee. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has observed vide the Order that the 
decision with regard to sale of the Properties of the Company by the Committee shall 
not be interfered with by any Court. 
 
(iii) All conditions of sale of the Properties shall be governed by the directions of the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court in the Order, the Subsequent Orders, the approved process by 
the Committee and in accordance with applicable provisions of law. 
 
2.2 Caution to the Bidders 
 
(i) It has come to the notice of the Committee that individuals/ entities are representing 
that they are recognized by the Committee for selling the land/  properties of PACL 
Limited. It is clarified that the Committee has not authorized any individual/ entity to 
sell / dispose of the land/ properties of PACL L imited. Only the Committee is 
authorized to sell/ dispose of the land/ properties of PACL Limited or land/ properties 
wherein PACL Limited or any of its associates/  subsidiaries have any interest/  right, 
directly or indirectly. 
 
(ii) The Properties are being sold on an ‘as is where is, whatever there is’ basis. 
 
(iii) Bidders are advised to go through all the terms and conditions of sale given in the 
Tender Document and also in the Notice of Sale before partic ipating in the online 
bidding/tender process. 
 
(iv) The Properties will be sold along with all claims, liabilities and/ or encumbrances 
relating thereto, if any, whether known or unknown to the Committee i.e. on an “as is, 
where is, whatever is” basis. The details of the Properties as stated in the Notice of Sale 
and the Tender Document, are as per the details made available to the Committee and 
neither the Committee nor the Agency shall, in any way, be responsible for any 
variation in title and /or the extent of the Properties due to any reason.  
 
(v) In the event of any mismatch in details including size, specification, etc., of the 
properties mentioned in Annexure -1 and its documents available on 
https://bankeauctions.com and https://sebipaclproperties.com  details mentioned in 
such documents shall be treated as final.  
 
(vi) Neither the Committee nor the Agency shall, in any way, be responsible for any 
variation/difference/mismatch in the extent of ownership, size, area, specifi cation of 
the Properties mentioned in Notice of Sale or the Tender Document. 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
Page 8 of 46 
2.3 Inspection of the Properties/ Buyers Beware 
 
(i) Bidders are requested to inspect the Properties including the area of the Properties and 
satisfy themselves regarding the area, physical nature, condition, extent etc., of the 
Properties prior to submission of their online bids. All costs incurred in connection with 
such inspection shall be borne by the Bidders. Further, the area of the Properties in the 
documents provided shall prevail over what has been presented in the Notice of Sale or 
the Tender  Document and the same must be inspected and verified by t he Bidders 
before participating in the tender process.  
 
(ii) Bidders are advised/ cautioned to verify with the sub-registrar’s office as well as obtain 
and analyse the revenue records with respect to the Properties and to satisfy themselves 
regarding the exist ence, title, nature, description, condition, existing encumbrances, 
liens, charges, statutory dues, etc., over the Properties before submitting their bids. 
 
(iii) The Agency/ the Committee shall not be, in any manner, responsible for rendering any 
assistance to the Bidder in connection with its independent inspection of the Properties. 
 
(iv) Bidders are bound by the principle of caveat emptor (buyer beware). 
 
(v) Bidders are requested to submit their bids only after conducting their own independent 
due diligence exercise with respect to the title to the Properties. 
 
2.4 Reserve Price and Bid Multiplier 
 
The reserve price for each Property (the “Reserve Price”) shall be as per the details set out in 
Annexure 1 hereof. The bids shall be in multiples of 1% (one percent) of the Reserve Price and 
the Technically Qualified Bidders shall increase their bids in multiples of 1% (one percent) of 
the Reserve Price. The e-auction portal shall automatically calculate the 1% (one percent) value 
and the absolute value in Indian National Rupees shall be displayed on the live e-auction page. 
 
2.5 Eligibility 
 
(i) For the tender process for sale of the Properties, the following types of persons or 
entities may be allowed to participate in the tender process (“Bidder”). 
 
(a) Resident Indian citizen  competent to contract under the Indian Contract Act, 
1872 
(b) Non-resident Indian citizen competent to contract under the Indian Contract 
Act, 1872* 
(c) Hindu Undivided Family 
(d) Indian Sole proprietorship 
(e) Partnership firm formed under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932; 
(f) Limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability 
Partnership Act, 2008 
(g) Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013 
(h) Society registered/ set up under laws of India 
(i) Trust registered/ set up under laws of India 
(j) Any department, division or sub -division of the Government of India or any 
State Government and includes any commission, corporation, board, authority, 
agency or municipal and other local authority or statutory body (including a 
company created by a statute other th an the Companies Act, 2013 or its 
predecessors) under the control of the Government of India or the State 
Government, as the case may be, and any Panchayat, but does not include any 
of the entities set out in Clause 2.5(i)(a) to ( i) (“ Governmental 

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
Page 9 of 46 
Instrumentality”) 
(k) Unincorporated joint venture and/ or consortium comprising of the entities set 
out in Clause 2.5(i)(a) to (j) (“Consortium”) 
. 
 
*Acquisition of immovable properties by a non-resident Indian citizen will be subject 
to applicable laws of India. 
 
(ii) It is clarified that a Consortium shall be eligible to participate in the tender process  
subject to complying with the following requirements: 
(a) each member of the Consortium shall have a PAN card; 
(b) the members of the Consortium shall enter into a joint bidding agreement in 
the format set out in Annexure 6; 
(c) the members of the Consortium shall nominate one member as the lead  
member (the “Lead Member”). The nomination shall be supported by a power 
of attorney, as per the format at Annexure 7, signed by all the other members 
of the Consortium; and 
(d) all actions required to be undertaken by or in favour of a Bidder pursuant to 
this Tender Document shall, unless otherwise specified, be undertaken by or in 
favour of the Lead Member. 
 
(iii) It is clarified that if any individual/ entity , including each member of a Consortium,  
does not have a PAN card, they/ such Consortium will be ineligible to participate in the 
tender process. 
 
2.6 Registration by the Bidder on the Portal 
 
(i) The auction shall be conducted through a tender process facilitated by the Agency. The 
Bidder is required to register on the Portal for uploading necessary forms and 
documents thereat and making bids thereon.  
 
(ii) Each Bidder shall, pursuant to gaining access to the Portal, provide such details as may 
be required by the E-Auction Service Provider. 
 
(iii) The Bidder is required to register on the e-auction portal sufficiently in advance of the 
Bid Due Date and familiarise itself on the process of bid submission (incl uding EMD 
Payment, uploading necessary forms and documents) thereat and making bids thereon 
to avoid any last minute contingencies/ problems.  
 
2.7 Submission of Earnest Money Deposit 
 
(i) The non-interest bearing earnest money deposit will be paid by the Bidder p rior to 
submission of documents as per Clause 2.8(i). The non-interest bearing earnest money 
deposit shall be an amount equivalent to 10% (ten percent) of the Reserve Price of the 
particular Property (“ EMD”). The EMD shall be submitted in accordance with t he 
timelines set out in Clause 3.2 and shall be paid by way of RTGS, NEFT or challan. 
The entire EMD amount shall be remitted by the Bidders from one bank account only 
and the bank account from which the EMD is remitted should be owned by the Bidder. 
The bank account details into which the EMD is to be deposited is provided in the table 
below:  
 

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
Page 10 of 46 
Description Details 
 
Bank Name Canara Bank 
 
Branch Address Canara Bank Building 
B Wing, 8th Floor, C-14, G Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East, 
Mumbai, Maharashtra – 400015 
 
Beneficiary Name Securities and Exchange Board of India PACL Limited.  
 
Account No 1 1 0 2 2 9 1 7 0 4 4 4 
 
IFSC Code C N R B 0 0 0 6 6 4 3 
 
 
(ii) Bidders shall not disclose remittance details of EMD, Unique Transaction Reference 
(UTR) No., etc. to anyone else, to safeguard its secrecy. 
 
(iii) Bidders shall preserve the remittance challan and shall produce the same as and when 
demanded. 
 
(iv) EMD and other amounts paid by the Bidders/ Technically Qualified Bidders/ 
Successful Bidder are liable to forfeiture in case of any default or misrepresentation on 
the part of the Bidder/ Technically Qualified Bidders/ Successful Bidder. 
 
(v) All the payments made by the Bidder/ Technically Qualified Bidders/ Successful 
Bidder under the tender process shall b e made to the Committee’s bank account, 
particulars of which are set out in Clause 2.7 (i) above.  
 
(vi) The Committee shall have the right to forfeit the EMD and any other monies of the 
Bidders in the event that any of the documents uploaded on the Portal purs uant to 
Clause 2.8(i) is found to be incorrect or in the event that the Agency/ the Committee 
has, pursuant to its verification of such documents, discovered any misrepresentation 
on the part of the Bidder. 
 
2.8 Submission of the Bid Form and Other Documents 
 
(i) Bidders are required to fill up the ‘bid form’ on the Portal (“ Bid Form”), and upload 
the following on the Portal on or before the last date and time given in the Notice of 
Sale/ Tender Document:  
 
(a) Declaration as per the format prescribed in Annexure 2; 
 
(b) Evidence of payment of EMD: 
 
1. scanned copy of self-attested copy of bank statement; and  
 
2. scanned copy of challan or e-receipt clearly indicating UTR no. 
 
(c) Copy of the duly signed Tender Document; 
 
(d) Additional documents mentioned below: 
 

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
Page 11 of 46 
Type of Bidder Additional Documents to be Uploaded 
 
Resident Indian 
Citizen 
1. Self-attested proof of address issued by any 
Governmental Instrumentality (“Proof of Address”) to 
the resident Indian citizen. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the resident Indian 
citizen. 
 
Non-resident 
Indian Citizen 
1. Proof of Address of non-resident Indian. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the non -resident 
Indian.  
 
Indian Sole 
Proprietorship 
1. Proof of Address of sole proprietor, or, if the address of 
the sole proprietorship is different f rom the address of 
the sole proprietor, Proof of Address of the sole 
proprietorship. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of sole proprietor. 
 
Hindu 
Undivided 
Family 
1. Proof of Address of Karta, or, if the address of the Hindu 
Undivided Family is different from the address of the 
Karta, Proof of Address of the Hindu Undivided Family. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of:  
 
A. Hindu Undivided Family; and  
 
B. Karta. 
 
Partnership firm 
formed under 
the Indian 
Partnership Act, 
1932/ Limited 
liability 
partnership 
incorporated 
under the 
Limited 
Liability 
Partnership Act, 
2008 
1. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of  partnership firm/ 
limited liability partnership. 
 
2. Self-attested c opy of registration certificate, if any, or 
incorporation certificate as applicable. 
 
3. Self-attested c opy of partnership deed or limited 
liability partnership agreement, as applicable. 
 
4. Power of attorney (as per the format prescribed in 
Annexure 5).  
 
5. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the attorney. 
 
Company 
incorporated 
under the 
Companies Act, 
1956/ 2013 
1. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of company. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of incorporation certificate. 
 
3. Power of attorney (as per the format prescribed in 
Annexure 5).  
 
4. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the attorney. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
Page 12 of 46 
Type of Bidder Additional Documents to be Uploaded 
 
Society 
registered/ set 
up under laws of 
India 
1. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of society. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of certificate of registration. 
 
3. Power of attorney (as per the format prescribed in 
Annexure 5). 
 
4. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the attorney. 
 
Trust registered/ 
set up under 
laws of India 
1. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of trust. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of certificate of registration. 
 
3. Power of attorney (as per the format prescribed in 
Annexure 5). 
 
4. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the attorney. 
 
Governmental 
Instrumentality 
1. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of the Governmental 
Instrumentality. 
 
2. Self-attested copy of gazette notification or other 
instrument evidencing proof of the coming into 
existence of the Governmental Instrumentality. 
 
3. Power of attorney (as per the format prescribed in 
Annexure 5).  
 
4. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the attorney. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
Page 13 of 46 
Type of Bidder Additional Documents to be Uploaded 
 
Consortium 
1. Self-attested copy of the PAN card of Lead Member (as 
specified above in respect of the different types of 
entities). 
 
2. Power of attorney executed pursuant to Clause 2.5(ii). 
 
3. Joint bidding agreement executed pursuant to Clause 
2.5(ii). 
 
4. In the event that the Lead Member is not a resident 
Indian citizen , non-resident Indian  citizen, sole 
proprietorship, or Hindu Undivided Family: 
 
A. Power of attorney (as per the format prescribed 
in Annexure 5). 
 
B. Self-attested copy of PAN card of the attorney. 
 
5. Documents, as relevant, depending on the type of entity 
the Lead Member is: 
 
A. Self-attested copy of partnership deed / limited 
liability partnership agreement / incorporation 
certificate/ certificate of registration / gazette 
notification or other instrument evidencing 
proof of th e coming into existence of the 
Governmental Instrumentality; and/ or 
 
B. Proof of Address  of resident Indian citizen/ 
non-resident Indian/ sole proprietor ( or, if the 
address of the sole proprietorship  is different 
from the address of the sole proprietor, of the 
sole proprietorship)/ Karta (or, if the address of 
the Hindu Undivided Family is different from 
the address of the Karta, of the Hindu 
Undivided Family). 
 
 
The Bidders would be required to upload the above documents on the Portal and are 
not required to submit the physical copies of the documents. Only the Successful 
Bidder is required to produce the original physical copies of the documents after 
Intimation.  
 
(ii) For any queries related to the e -auction portal and registering on the e -auction portal 
the interested bidders may reach out to the following persons: 
Sl. 
No. 
Name Email ID Phone No 
1. BankeAuctions Help 
Desk 
support@bankeauctions.com +91 7291981124 / 
1125 / 1126 
Helpline No: +91-124-4302020 / 21 / 22 / 23 +91- 7291981124 / 1125 / 1126 
Helpline Email: support@bankeauctions.com 
 

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
Page 14 of 46 
(iii) The Committee reserves the right not to respond to any question or provide any 
clarification, in its sole discretion, and nothing in this Clause 2.8 shall be taken or read 
as compelling or requiring the Committee to respond to any question or to provide any 
clarification. 
 
(iv) Bidders can participate in the tender process from anywhere. Therefore, any Bidder 
who is an individual/ Non-Resident Indian or Karta of Hindu Undivided Family, shall 
participate in the tender process on his own behalf and shall not be allowed to 
participate in the tender process through any third party such as an authorised agent/ 
representative.  
 
2.9 Intimation to Technically Qualified Bidders 
 
(i) The Agency sha ll ( a) verify the documents submitted as per Clause 2.8(i); and ( b) 
ascertain submission of the EMD, within the timelines specified in Clause 3.2.  
 
(ii) Pursuant to such verification, the Agency shall notify the Bidders (via email) regarding 
their eligibility to participate in the tender process for the Properties and such Bidders 
shall hereinafter be referred to as the “Technically Qualified Bidders”.  
 
(iii) In the event that there is only a single Technically Qualified Bidder, the tender process 
shall stand annulled. 
 
2.10 Online Bidding 
 
(i) Bidding will be through the Portal. 
(ii) Bidders are cautioned to be careful while submitting their bid amount. 
(iii) The Committee and the Agency shall not have any liability towards Bidders for any 
interruption or delay in access to the Portal irrespective of the cause, issues relating to 
the Portal, failure of internet connection, server problems, etc. 
(iv) Any dispute arising out of the tender process for sale of the Properties shall be decided 
by the Committee, whose decision shall be final and binding.  
(v) A manual (“ Bidder’s Manual”) has been uploaded on the website of the E -Auction 
Service Provider at https://bankeauctions.com 
2.11 Duration of Auction sale 
 
(i) Online tender process will commence and be carried out as per the timelines set out in 
Clause 3.2. 
 
(ii) The tender process shall commence strictly at the scheduled time and at a price equal 
to Reserve Price. Tender process/ bidding time will initially be for a period of 1 (one) 
hour and the closing time of the tender process is system controlled; the time will get 
automatically extended by 5 (five) minutes if any bid is received during the last 5 (five) 
minutes, i.e. while an active bid is in process and kept open till the auction -sale 
concludes. 
 
(iii) If any market-leading bid (bid higher than the highest at the point in time) is received 
within the last 5 (five ) minutes of closing time, the bidding time will be extended 
automatically by 5 (five) minutes and if no bid higher than last quoted highest bid is 
received within the said extended 5 (five) minutes, the auction sale will automatically 
get closed at the expiry of the extended 5 (five) minutes period. There will thus be an 
extension of bidding -time, each of 5 (five ) minutes duration, till tender process is 

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
Page 15 of 46 
concluded. 
 
(iv) Technically Qualified Bidders are advised to enter their bid accordingly keeping in 
mind the 5 (five) minutes duration as specified above. 
 
(v) No complaint on the time -factor for bidding or paucity of time for bidding will be 
entertained by the Agency and/ or the Committee. 
 
(vi) In the event that only a single bid is received on the e-auction portal, the auction process 
shall stand annulled.  
 
2.12 Intimation to the Technically Qualified Bidder submitting the highest bid 
 
After the conclusion of the tender process, and subject to approval of the Committee, the 
Technically Qualified Bidder submitting the highest bid shall be informed through an email to 
the e-mail ID used at the time of registration, of the outcome of the tender process and that the 
Technically Qualified Bidder has submitted the highest bid for the tender process. 
 
2.13 Intimation to the Successful Bidder 
 
After approval of the Committee on accep tance of the highest price bid, the Technically 
Qualified Bidder submitting such bid will be declared as the Successful Bidder (“ Successful 
Bidder”) via an e -mail (“Intimation”). The Successful Bidder will be required to make the 
balance payment as per the  schedule in the Tender Document. Date of sending the e -mail 
confirming the decision of the Committee will be considered as the date of receipt of the 
Intimation. 
 
2.14 Deposit of the purchase price and verification of Documents 
 
(i) The Successful Bidder should pay 25% (twenty five percent) of the highest bid amount 
within 7 (seven) working days from the date of the Intimation . It is clarified that, in 
case the Successful Bidder is the Technically Qualified Bidder who submitted the 
highest bid in the tender process, their EMD will be adjusted against the 
aforementioned amount.  
 
(ii) The balance (amounting to 75% (seventy five percent)) of the highest bid amount, 
along with 1% (one percent) of highest bid amount as ‘poundage fee’, shall be paid by 
the Successful Bidder within 15 (fifteen) days from the date of the Intimation.  
 
(iii) All the payments of the bid amount made by the Successful Bidder shall be made to 
the Committee’s bank account, (particulars of which are set out in Clause 2.7(i)),  and 
shall be intimated to the Agency via e -mail from the email ID used by the Successful 
Bidder at the time of registration, immediately together with the MR No., UTR No. and 
a challan copy relating to the said payment. The payments of the bid amounts shall be 
made by the Successful Bidder from the same bank account from which he has made 
payment of the EMD amounts. No interest will be payable on the amounts received 
from the Successful Bidder.  
 
(iv) If any amount required to be paid by the Successful  Bidder i s not paid within the 
specified time, all amounts paid by the Successful Bidder (inclusive of the EMD) shall 
be liable for forfeiture. 
 
(v) Once the payment (including deduction of TDS by the Successful Bidder, as per 
applicable laws) is made, the Successful B idder will be required to produce the 
originals of the documents uploaded under Clause 2.8(i) and letter issued by the bank 

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
Page 16 of 46 
(through which such Bidder has paid EMD and other instalments) authenticating the 
identity of such Bidder along with bank account statement and original TDS certificate 
for verification purpose. The documents may be produced at the date, time and venue 
communicated to the Successful Bidder (via email) by the Agency. For the purpose of 
such verification, the Successful Bidder/ the autho rized representative of Successful 
Bidder will have to be present in person during the verification process. 
 
2.15 Default in Payment 
 
Default of payment of the bid amounts within the stipulated time shall result in the following: 
 
(i) an automatic cancellation of the sale without any notice; 
 
(ii)  all amounts paid until then by the Successful Bidder (inclusive of the EMD), shall be 
liable for forfeiture; and 
 
(iii) offering the other Technically Qualified Bidders an option to meet the highest bid, and 
if any Technically Qualified Bidder agrees to the said offer in writing within such 
period as may be specified in the offer, said Technically Qualified Bidder shall, subject 
to approval of the Committee, be declared as the Successful Bidder via the Intimation, 
whereupon the conditions stipulated in Clauses 2.13 and 2.14 shall be applicable to 
such Successful Bidder: 
 
Provided that if two or more Technically Qualified Bidders agree to such offer as 
above, then the Technically Qualified Bidder whose bid was higher as compared to the 
other Technically Qualified Bidder(s) shall, subject to approval of the Committee,  be 
declared as the S uccessful Bidder via the Intimation, whereupon the conditions 
stipulated in Clauses 2.13 and 2.14 shall be applicable to such Successful Bidder. 
 
2.16 Confirmation of Sale 
 
(i) The Successful Bidder shall not have any right/ title over the Properties until a sale 
certificate (as per the format prescribed in Annexure 4) is issued in its favour by the 
Committee in accordance with the Order and Subsequent Orders. 
 
(ii) The sale certificate will be issued subject to compliance of all terms and conditions of 
sale, unless cancelled by the Committee for any reason, including as per applicable law. 
 
(iii) The sale certificate will not be issued pending operation of any stay/ injunction/ 
restraining order passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court / any other court having 
jurisdiction against such issuance. 
 
(iv) Any request for cancellation of the sale for any or all th e Properties or return of the 
deposit, either in part or full, will not be entertained. 
 
(v) Representations/ objections from the Successful Bidder would not be entertained at any 
time.  
 
2.17 Payment of Stamp Duty, etc. 
 
(i) The sale attracts stamp duty, registration charges, etc. as per relevant laws. 
 
(ii) All the applicable charges including stamp duty, registration charges, conveyance, 
government taxes such as Goods and Services Tax etc. as per relevant laws, with 
respect to the sale of Properties shall be borne by the Successful Bidder for transfer of 

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
Page 17 of 46 
the Properties in his/ her name.  
 
(iii) The payment of all statutory/ non -statutory dues, taxes, rates, assessments, charges, 
fees, etc., owed by the Company to anybody in respect of the Properties shall be the 
sole responsibil ity of Successful Bidder only. No interest will be payable on the 
amounts received from the Successful Bidder.  
 
2.18 Sale Certificate 
 
(i) The sale certificate will be issued by the Committee only in accordance with the Order 
and Subsequent Orders. Subject to sub-clause (iii) below, t he sale certificate will be 
issued in the name of the Successful Bidder specified in the Bid Form. Any request for 
inclusion/ substitution of name, other than those mentioned in the Bid Form, in the sale 
certificate will not be entertained. 
 
(ii) The sale certificate will be issued at the date, time and venue to be intimated by the 
Agency to the Successful Bidder (via email)  only after entire price bid amount is 
deposited by the Successful Bidder. 
 
(iii) In case any  of the S uccessful Bidder is  a partnership firm/  Consortium, the sale 
certificate for each individual property in the Lot (as defined in Annexure 1) may be 
issued in favour of any or more of the partners  /members of the Consortium  at the 
request of the partnership firm/ Consortium. It is clarified that partners of the 
partnership firm/ Consortium shall be treated as on the date of submitting the bid and 
no partner/ member added after the date of submitting  the bid will be entitled to the 
said benefit. 
 
(iv) Sale certificate shall be  collected in person by the Successful Bidder or through an 
authorized person. The Successful Bidder or the authorised representative shall be 
required to carry the required documents such as ID proofs, authorisation letter (if 
applicable), copy of mail, etc. along with them. 
 
2.19 Return of EMD 
 
The EMD of the unsuccessful Bidders will be refunded within a reasonable time after the 
declaration of the Successful Bidder for a particular tender  or cancellation/ annulment of the 
tender, whichever is earlier, subjec t to there being no event of forfeiture of EMD . The EMD 
will be refunded , without any interest, to the same bank account from which the EMD was 
received and the unsuccessful Bidders shall be intimated via their e-mail ID. 
 
2.20 Stay/ Cancellation of the Sale 
 
(i) In case of stay/ injunction/ restraining order passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court/ any 
other court having jurisdiction, the tender process may either be deferred or cancelled 
for sale of any or all the Properties and persons participating in the sale shal l have no 
right to claim damages, compensation or cost for such deferment or cancellation.  
 
(ii) Default in payment of 25% (twenty five percent) of the bid amount by the Successful 
Bidder within the time period stipulated in Clause 3.2 will result in cancellation of sale 
for any or all the Properties including forfeiture of the EMD amount. 
 
(iii) In case the Successful Bidder has paid the EMD amount and 25% (twenty five percent) 
of the bid amount (inclusive of the EMD amount) but fails to pay the remaining balance 
of 75% (seventy five percent) of the bid amount or fails to pay 1% (one percent) of 
highest bid amount as ‘poundage fee’ within the time period stipulated in Clause 3.2, 

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
Page 18 of 46 
the entire amount paid by the Successful Bidder (including EMD amount) shall be 
forfeited. 
 
(iv) The Committee shall also have the right to postpone/ cancel the sale of any or all the 
Properties, for any reason whatsoever. In case of such postponement/ cancellation of 
sale, a fresh notice of sale may not be given. However, any change in the timelines set 
out in Clause 3.2, if any, will be informed through e-mail and/ or notified on the website 
of the Agency/ the Committee. 
 
2.21 Documents Related to the Properties 
 
(i) The Successful Bidder, on receipt of sale certificate, shall contact the Committee for 
obtaining documents related to the Properties as available with the Committee. 
 
(ii) The Committee shall ensure that documents as available with the Committee are 
handed over to the Successful Bidder post issuance of the sale certificate in accordance 
with the Order and Subsequent Orders, directions of the Committee and as per 
provisions of applicable laws.  
 
2.22 Possession 
 
(i) Subject to directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court vide the Order and Subsequent 
Orders, after obtaining the sale certificate and getting the sale registered with 
appropriate authorities under applicable laws, the Successful Bidder is entitled to obtain 
possession of the Property. 
 
(ii) All expenses and incidental charges thereto shall be borne by the Successful Bidder. 
 
 
2.23 Other Conditions 
 
(i) The bids shall be submitted by the Technically Qualified Bidders and the Properties 
shall be acquired by the Successful Bidder in compliance with applicable laws  
including foreign exchange laws and tax laws, as applicable. 
 
(ii) An officer or other person having any duty to perform in connection with the sale of 
the Properties, either directly or indirectly, or pursuant to the Tender Document, cannot 
bid for, acquire or attempt to acquire any interest in the Properties sold. 
 
(iii) Any counteroffer/  conditions by the Bidder, Technically Qualified Bidder and/  or 
Successful Bidder will not be entertained. 
 
(iv) The Committee shall have liberty to amend/ modify/ delete any of the conditions of the 
Tender Document or Notice of Sale as may be deemed necessary in the light of facts 
and circumstances of each case. 
 
(v) The Committee shall have the right to accept or reject all or any bid or bids as well as 
to postpone or cancel the sale for any or all the Properties for reasons to be recorded in 
the proceedings. 
 
(vi) Bidders shall be deemed to have read and understood all the conditions of sale, the 
Tender Document, the Order and the Notice of Sale and are bound by the same. 
 
(vii) The above terms and conditions are general in nature, subject to change and are in 
addition to other specific conditions given in the Tender Document and Notice of Sale. 

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
Page 19 of 46 
 
(viii) Bidders are advised to preserve the documents e videncing deposit of EMD and 
documents pertaining to other deposits/ payments made by it and other document 
uploaded by it on the Portal for future reference. 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
Page 20 of 46 
3. TENDER PROCESS SCHEDULE 
 
3.1 The description of the Properties, the Reserve Price for the same, and the quantum of EMD are 
as set forth in Annexure 1. 
 
3.2 The schedule of the tender process pursuant to the Tender  Document shall be as per the 
estimated timelines specified below: 
 
Activity Last Date (in Calendar Days)  
Issuance of Tender Document Wednesday, September 30,2026 
Start Date of Submission of Bids Wednesday, September 30,2026 
Last Date of Submission of Queries  Tuesday, October 13, 2026 (till 16:00 
hours Indian Standard Time) 
Bid due date (last date of uploading of documents 
specified in Clause 2.8(i) and payment of EMD) 
Monday, November 02, 2026 (till 17:00 
hours Indian Standard Time)* 
Intimation to Technically Qualified Bidders Monday, November 16, 2026 
Commencement of live e-auction Friday, November 20, 2026  (11:00 
hours Indian Standard Time)* 
Completion of live e-auction (subject to Clause 2.11) Friday, November 20, 2026 
Intimation to the Successful Bidder Within 2 working days from the date of 
completion of live e-auction 
Payment of 25% (twenty five percent) of the highest bid 
amount (inclusive of the EMD amount) by the 
Successful Bidder 
Within 7 (seven) working days from the 
date of the Intimation 
Payment of balance 75%  (seventy five percent)  of the 
highest bid amount along with 1% (one percent) of 
highest bid amount as ‘poundage fee’, by the Successful 
Bidder 
Within 15 (fifteen) working days from the 
date of the Intimation 
Note: 
1. Dates marked with * may be amended by the Committee as may be deemed necessary in the light 
of facts and circumstances of each case 
2. Any changes in the above-mentioned timelines shall be intimated to the Bidders via email 
. 
In case the day of completion of any requirement fall s due on a public holiday, the day of 
completion shall be deemed to be due on the next successive working day. The expression 
“public holiday” includes Saturday, Sunday and any other day declared to be a public holiday 
by the Central Government. 
 
3.3 All Bidders are advised to: 
 
(i) Comply with all the prevailing laws of land, regulations, and rules, as applicable for 
purchase of property in India. 
 
(ii) Inspect the Properties and satisfy themselves before taking part in the tender process  

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
Page 21 of 46 
and filling the Bid Form. 
 
(iii) Make their own independent enquiries regarding the encumbrances, title of Properties 
involved in the tender process and claims/rights/dues, etc., in respect of the Properties, 
prior to submitting their EMD/ bid on the Portal. 
 
(iv) Carefully read the terms and conditions of sale before submitting their bids. 
 
(v) Keep a copy of all documents uploaded to the Portal, as well as the Notice of Sale for 
their future reference. 
 
(vi) Make the bid and all communications in relation to or concerning the Tender Document 
and the bid, in the English language. 
 
(vii) Bear all of their own costs associated with the preparation of their bids and their 
participation in the tender process. 
 
3.4 Verification of information by the Bidders 
 
It shall be deemed that by participating in the tender process, the Bidder has: 
 
(i) made a complete and careful examination of the Tender Document and Notice of Sale 
and unconditionally and irrevocably accepted the terms thereof; 
 
(ii) read and understood the Order and Subsequent Orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court; 
 
(iii) reviewed all relevant information, including information provided by the Agency/ the 
Committee, as may be relevant to the tender process; 
 
(iv) satisfied itself about all matters regarding the tender process required for submitting an 
informed bid in accordance with the Tender Document and performance of all of its 
obligations hereunder; 
 
(v) acknowledged and agreed that inadequacy, lack of completeness or incorrectness of 
information provided in the Tender Document or ignorance of any of the matters related 
to the tender pr ocess or the Properties shall not be a basis for any claim for 
compensation, damages, extension of time for performance of its obligations, loss of 
profits etc., from the Committee/ Agency; and 
 
(vi) agreed to be bound by the undertakings provided by it under and in terms hereof. 
 
3.5 Verification and Disqualification  
 
(i) The Agency/ Committee reserves the right to verify (in accordance with the provisions 
of the Tender Document) all statements, information and documents submitted by the 
Bidder in response to the Tender Document and the Bidder shall, when so required by 
the Agency/ Committee, make available all such information, evidence and documents 
as may be necessary  for such verification. Any such verification or lack of such 
verification by the Agency/ Committee shall not relieve the Bidder of its obligations or 
liabilities hereunder nor will it affect any rights of the Agency/ Committee thereunder. 
 
(ii) Without prejudice to any other right or remedy that may be available to the Agency/ 
Committee under the Tender Document or otherwise, the Committee reserves the right, 
without any liability whatsoever, to disqualify the Bidder, cancel the sale for any or all 
the Properties and to appropriate the entire EMD and other amounts paid, including 

--- PDF PAGE 22 ---
Page 22 of 46 
without limitation, if: 
 
(a) at any time, a Corrupt Practice, Fraudulent Practice, Coercive Practice, 
Undesirable Practice or Restrictive Practice on part of the Bidder is made or 
uncovered. 
 
(b) the Bidder does not provide, within the time specified by the Agency/ the 
Committee, the supplemental information/ documentation sought by the 
Agency/ Committee. 
 
(c) any act or omission of the Bidder/ Technically Qualified Bidder/Successful 
Bidder results in violation of or non -compliance with the Tender Document 
and/ or any other document referred herein or issued pursuant thereto or any 
applicable law relevant for the tender process. 
 
4. FRAUD AND CORRUPT PRACTICES 
 
4.1 The Bidders and their respective officers,  employees, agents and advisers shall observe the 
highest standard of ethics during the tender process. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary 
contained herein, the Committee/ Agency may reject a bid without being liable in any manner 
whatsoever to the B idder, Technically Qualified Bidder or the Successful Bidder, as the case 
may be, if the Committee/ Agency determines that the Bidder, Technically Qualified Bidder or 
Successful Bidder, as the case may be, has, directly or indirectly or through an agent, engaged 
in Corrupt Practice, Fraudulent Practice, Coercive Practice, Undesirable Practice or Restrictive 
Practice in the tender process. In such an event, the Committee/ Agency shall be entitled to 
forfeit and appropriate the EMD and other amounts paid, as damages, without prejudice to any 
other right or remedy that may be available to the Committee/ Agency under the Tender  
Document or otherwise. 
 
4.2 For the purposes of this Clause 4, the following terms shall have the meaning hereinafter 
respectively assigned to them: 
 
(i) “Corrupt Practice” means (a) the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting, directly or 
indirectly, of anything of value to influence the actions of any person connected with 
the tender process (for avoidance of doubt, offering of employment to or employing or 
engaging in  any manner whatsoever, directly or indirectly, any official of the 
Committee/ Agency who is or has been associated in any manner, directly or indirectly, 
with the tender process or has dealt with matters concerning the Tender Document or 
arising therefrom, at any time prior to the expiry of 1 (one) year from the date such 
official resigns or retires from or otherwise ceases to be in the service of the Committee/ 
Agency, shall be deemed to constitute influencing the actions of a person connected 
with the te nder process); or (b) save and except as permitted under the Tender  
Document, engaging in any manner whatsoever, during the tender process or prior to 
confirmation of the sale, any person in respect of any matter relating to the tender 
process or confirmation of the sale, who at any time has been or is a legal, financial or 
technical adviser of the Committee/ Agency in relation to any matter concerning the 
tender process; 
 
(ii) “Fraudulent Practice” means a misrepresentation or omission of facts or suppression 
of facts or disclosure of incomplete facts, in order to influence the tender process; 
 
(iii) “Coercive Practice” means impairing or harming, or threatening to impair or harm, 
directly or indirectly, any person or property to influence any person’s participation or 
action in the tender process; 
(iv) “Undesirable Practice” means (a) establishing contact with any person connected with 

--- PDF PAGE 23 ---
Page 23 of 46 
or employed or engaged by the Committee/ Agency with the objective of canvassing, 
lobbying or in any manner influencing or attempting to i nfluence the tender process; 
(b) having a conflict of interest; or (c) violating of any applicable law; and 
 
(v) “Restrictive Practice” means forming a cartel or arriving at any understanding or 
arrangement among Bidders with the objective of restricting or manipulating a full and 
fair competition in the tender process. 
 
5. MISCELLANEOUS 
 
5.1 The tender process shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of India 
and any dispute arising out of the tender process for sale of the Properties or the T ender 
Document shall be decided by the Committee, whose decision shall be final and binding.  
 
5.2 The Committee, in its sole discretion and without incurring any obligation or liability, reserves 
the right, at any time, to: 
 
(i) consult with any Bidder in order to seek and receive clarification or further information; 
 
(ii) retain any information and/ or evidence submitted to the Committee/ Agency by, on 
behalf of, and/ or in relation to any Bidder; and/ or 
 
(iii) independently verify, disqualify, reject and/ or accept any and all submissions or other 
information and/ or evidence submitted by or on behalf of any Bidder. 
 
5.3 It shall be deemed that by submitting the bid, the Bidder agrees and releases the Committee and 
the Agency, its employees, subsidiaries, agents and advisers, irrevocably, unconditionally, fully 
and finally from any and all liability for claims, losses, damages, costs, expenses or liabilities 
in any way related to or arising from the exercise of any rights and/ or performance o f any 
obligations hereunder, pursuant hereto and/ or in connection with the tender process and waives, 
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws, any and all rights and/ or claims it may have 
in this respect, whether actual or contingent, whether present or in future. 
 
5.4 Proprietary data 
 
All documents and other information supplied by a Bidder to the Agency/ Committee shall 
remain or become the property of the Agency/ Committee. It will not return any bid or any 
information provided by the Bidder. 
 
6. DISCLAIMER 
 
6.1 The Agency and Committee accept no responsibility for the accuracy or otherwise for any 
statement contained in the Tender Document. 
 
6.2 The Committee/ Agency also accepts no liability of any nature whether resulting from 
negligence or otherwise ho wsoever caused, arising from reliance of any Bidder upon the 
statements contained in the Tender Document.  
 
6.3 The details of the Properties as stated in the Notice of Sale and under the Tender Document are 
as per the details as available with the Committee and neither the Committee nor the Agency 
shall, in any way, be responsible for any variation in the extent of the Properties due to any 
reason. 
 
6.4. The Company is neither competent nor authorised to make any statement, clarification or seek 
any information on behalf of the Committee in any manner whatsoever.

--- PDF PAGE 24 ---
Page 24 of 46 
ANNEXURE 1: 
Description of Properties 
 
Note:  
 
The below table is an indicative summary of the Properties that are being put up for e-auction under this Tender Document. The information set out below (as 
well as in the documents relating to the Properties made available on https://bankeauctions.com and https://sebipaclproperties.com) may not be complete, 
accurate, adequate or correct. Each Bidder should, therefore, conduct its own investigations and analysis. The Committee and its advisors shall have no liability 
to any person, including any Bidder under any law, statute, rules or regulations or tort, principles of restitution or unjust enrichment  or otherwise for any loss, 
damages, cost or expense which may arise from or be incurred or suffered on account thereof, including the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, completeness or 
reliability of this information. 
 
S. No MR No. Property Address Reserve Price EMD (INR) Lat Long 
1 10101-15 Property bearing Sy no.145, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 5488560 548856 13.282984, 77.679232 
2 17866-16 Property bearing Survey No.118, Kodagurki village, 
Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli taluk, Bangalore Rural District 23870880 2387088 13.290854,77.699356 
3 25068-16 
Property Bearing Survey no. 59/2, Bychapura Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
6977223 697722.3 13.224193,77.708728 
4  25070-16 Property Bearing Survey no. 47/4, Bychapura Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore District 17686449 1768644.9 13.226085, 77.708707 
5 25071-16 
Property Bearing Survey no. 44, 59/1 & 59/4, Bychapura 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
District 
12331836 1233183.6 13.222021 77.708658 
6 25979-16 
Property Bearing Sy no.212/1 and 210, 211, Sanna 
Amanikere Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore District 
72197433 7219743.3 13.222507,77.704504 
7 26009-16 
Property bearing sy no.56/1,Situated at Bychapura 
village,Devanahalli taluk,Bangalore rural district 
,Bangalore 
6490440 649044 13.227247,77.708210 
8 10022-15 
Property Bearing Sy No. 57/2, 57/7 & 57/3, Situated at 
Bidalur Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District 
2126817 212681.7 13.281131,77.691957 
9 10023-15 Property Bearing Sy no.113/5,Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk , Bangalore Rural. 7409556 740955.6 13.279411, 77.683016 
10 10024-15 
Property bearing Sy no.173/1, Situated at Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
3979206 397920.6 13.287151, 77.678859 
11 10025-15 
Property Bearing Survey no. 68,96,207 & 208, Bidalur 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural District 
16945929 1694592.9 13.286082,77.686850 
12 10034-15 
Property Bearing Survey no. 56 & 57, Boodihala Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
77170896 7717089.6 13.233150,77.734374    
13 10035-15 Property bearing sy no.41, Budihala Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District.  34651980 3465198 13.232257,77.734327     
14 10036-15 Property Bearing sy no.59/1,Budihala 
Village,KasabaHobli,DevanahalliTaluk,Bangalore Rural.   23226192 2322619.2 13.232979 77.735330 
15 10037-15 
Property Bearing Sy no. 31/2,34/3,27/1,Devasthanada 
Amanikere Village,Kasaba Hobli,Devanahalli 
Taluk,Bangalore Rural.  
1934064 193406.4 13.278478, 77.699522 

--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
Page 25 of 46 
16 10038- 15 
Property bearing suy no.132 and 119,Situated at 
Savakanahalli village,Kasaba hobli,Devanahalli 
taluk,Bangalore Rural District 
3356298 335629.8 13.269441, 77.698475 
17 10039-15 
Property Bearing Sy no.12 , Devasthananda Amanikere 
Village, Devanahalli Taluk, Kasaba Hobli, Bangalore 
Rural District 
6505686 650568.6 13.276489, 77.698636 
18 10042-15 
Property Bearing Sy No 37/2 and 38/1, Devastanada 
Amanikere Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District… 
3140676 314067.6 13.279172, 77.700452 
19 10043-15 
Property Bearing Sy No 83, Situated at Nileri 
Village,Kasaba Hobli,Devanahalli Taluk,Banglore Rural 
District  
14331240 1433124 13.272768, 77.705376 
20 10065-15 Property bearing Sy no.197, situated at Bidalur village, 
Kasaba Hobli,Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 14087304 1408730.4 13.291111, 77.683585 
21 10066-15 
Property Bearing Agicultural Dry Land, Sy No 219, 
Bidaluru Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District. 
9776498 977649.8 13.281698, 77.678874 
22 10067-15 
Property bearing sy no.188,Situated at Bidalur 
village,Kasaba hobli,Devanahalli taluk,Bangalore rural 
district 
3567564 356756.4 13.296846,77.685146 
23 10083-15 
Property Bearing Sy Nos 77, 72 and 6/4, Nileri Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk , Bangalore Rural 
District. 
12423312 1242331.2 13.275809,77.704330 
24 10085-15 Property Bearing Sy No.152, 185/5, Bidaluru Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore  13858614 1385861.4 13.294799,77.683166 
25 10089-15 Property Bearing Sy No. 125/2, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore  5488560 548856 13.281698, 77.678874 
26 10092-15 Property bearing Sy no.99/4, Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 1852389 185238.9 13.285284,77.686421 
27 10095-15 
Property Bearing Sy no.207 and 208,Bidaluru Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk , Bangalore Rural 
District. 
2401245 240124.5 13.290749 77.686546 
28 10097-15 Property Bearing Sy No.10, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore  8129930 812993 13.289794, 77.694377 
29 10098-15 Property Bearing Sy No 211/1, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District… 3430350 343035 13.288417,77.688111 
30 10099-15 
Property bearing Sy no.10 situated at Bidaluru village, 
Kasaba Hobli., Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
Distrcit. 
4116420 411642 13.289794,77.694377 
31 10100-15 
Property Bearing Survey no. 7/2, Bidaluru Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
4802490 480249 13.291664 77.693895 
32 10103-15 
Property Bearing Survey no. 165 & 170, Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
12726599 1272659.9 13.289242  77.676404 
33 10104-15 Property Bearing Sy No.72, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore  2195424 219542.4 13.283291,77.688547 

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
Page 26 of 46 
34 10105-15 Property Bearing Sy No. 174/1, 215, 211/1, Bidaluru 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore  16465680 1646568 13.288486, 77.679110 
35 10106-15 
Property bearing Sy no. 179/1 & 180/2 situated at Bidalur 
village, Kasaba Hobli., Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural Distrcit. 
14681898 1468189.8 13.288278, 77.684528 
36 10107-15 
Property  Bearing  Survey no. 179/2, Bidaluru Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
7958412 795841.2 13.287731,77.684638 
37 10108-15 Property bearing Survey No.10, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 2332638 233263.8 13.289794,77.694377 
38 10109-15 
Property bearing sy no.57/4 and 57/5, sy no.58/4, Bidalur 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural District 
2469852 246985.2 13.281011, 77.691811 
39 10112-15 Property Bearing Survey no. 219, Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 9604980 960498 13.291927, 77.691538 
40 10113-15 Property Bearing Survey no. 215, Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 4013510 401351 13.288212, 77.688400 
41 10114-15 Property Bearing Sy no.188, Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 27305586 2730558.6 13.296667,77.685001 
42 10115-15 Property bearing Sy no.113/2, Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 3841992 384199.2 13.280198, 77.683104 
43 10116-15 Property bearing Sy no. 226, Bidaluru, Kasaba  hobli, 
Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural Ditrict. 3979206 397920.6 13.295647,77.686333 
44 10117-15 Property bearing Sy no.170, situated at Bidalur village, 
Kasaba Hobli,Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 7238070 723807 13.288504,77.676920 
45 10118-15 
Property bearing sy no.100,Situated at Bidalur 
village,Kasaba hobli,Devanahalli taluk,Bangalore rural 
district,Bangalore   
2332638 233263.8 13.285024,77.686227 
46 10156-15 
Property Bearing Sy No. 22/7, 23 & 24/1 Situated at 
Prasannahalli Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District 
11254815 1125481.5 13.229060,77.702658 
47 10162-15 
Property bearing Sy no.99/2 and 99/4 Devanahalli village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District. 
39855222 3985522.2 13.262542, 77.709672 
48 10164-15 Property Bearing Survey no. 64, Devanahalli Village, 
Devanahalli Hobli and Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 4810113 481011.3 13.258011, 77.709627 
49 10176-15 
Property bearing Survey No. 221/2, Bidaluru Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
4390848 439084.8 13.291294 77.690988 
50 10178-15 
Agricultural land bearing Sy No.201, Bidalur Village, 
KasabaHobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
Distrcit.    
5488560 548856 13.290424, 77.683371      
51 10179-15 
Property bearing Survey No. 125/1C, Bidaluru Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
5625774 562577.4 13.281853, 77.678623 

--- PDF PAGE 27 ---
Page 27 of 46 
52 10180-15 Property Bearing Sy no.71/2,73/2 and 73/1,Nileri 
Village,Kasab Hobli,Devanahalli Taluk,Bangalore Rural. 2298335 229833.5 13.273351, 77.702081 
53 10182-15 Property bearing Sy no.53/1 situated at Bidalur village, 
Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli taluk, Bangalore Rural District.   8232840 823284 13.280186,77.693100 
54 10184-15 
Property bearing Sy no.187/1 situated at 
Bidalurvillage,Kasabahobli, Devanahalli taluk, Bangalore 
Rural District 
3155922 315592.2 13.298020, 77.684544 
55 10185-15 Property bearing Survey No. 62, Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 2744280 274428 13.280526,77.690891 
56 10186-15 Property Bearing Sy No.173/4,Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District  4658775 465877.5 13.285481,77.679456 
57 10187-15 
Property Bearing Agicultural Dry Land, Sy No 130/3E, 
Bidaluru Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District.. 
4116420 411642 13.283221,77.683223 
58 17862-16 Property Bearing Sy No 99/1A, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District. 1783782 178378.2 13.285273, 77.6865578 
59 17868-16 Property Bearing Sy No.185/1,Bidalur Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Banglore Rural District  1189188 118918.8 13.281131, 77.691957 
60 17869-16 Property bearing Survey No.53/2, Bidaluru Village, 
Kasabahobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 3841992 384199.2 13.279804, 77.692953 
61 17870-16 Pr+W88operty bearing Sy no. 198, situated at Bidalur 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore    15505182 1550518.2 13.290937,77.684628 
62 17871-16 
Property Bearing Survey no. 217/Block 1, Bidalur 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural District 
10977120 1097712 13.293171,77.688417 
63 17872-16 Property bearing sy no.185/3 & 185/7, Bidalur Village, 
KasabaHobli, DevanahalliTaluk,Bangalore Rural District   7546770 754677 13.294812, 77.6282729 
64 17873-16 Property bearing Survey no. 167/B-26, Bidaluru, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 15093540 1509354 13.288235, 77.667991 
65 17876-16 
Property bearing Survey No.218/2, Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District. 
1440810 144081 13.292707, 77.692479 
66 17878-16 Property Bearing Sy no. 176, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahlli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 1019304 101930.4 13.288176, 77.680674 
67 17879-16 Property bearing Survey No.225/2, Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore rural district 1916640 191664 13.294025, 77.689251 
68 17880-16 Property bearing Survey no. 6/1 Bidaluru, KasabaHobli, 
Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District    3430350 343035 13.292584, 77.693678 
69 17884-16 
Property Bearing Agriculture Dry Land, Sy No 113/3, 
Bidalur Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District 
5625774 562577.4 13.279882,77.683000 

--- PDF PAGE 28 ---
Page 28 of 46 
70 24753-16 
Property Bearing Survey no. 16, and 17/1, Sanne 
ammanikere Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District 
78448867 7844886.7 13°14'33.40928"N 
77°41'31.01468"E 
71 24754-16 
Property Bearing Survey no. 22, Sanne ammanikere 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural District. 
25003440 2500344 13°14'42.29042"N 
77°41'47.56702"E 
72 25074-16 
Property Bearing Sy No. 57/3(old No. 57), 56/3(old No. 
56), 47/3 & 47/2 Situated at Byachapura Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 
17361927 1736192.7 13.225696, 77.708243 
73 25079-16 Property Bearing Sy no.50, Bychapura Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural. 10123344 1012334.4 13.225589 77.707889 
74 26013-16 
Property bearing Sy no.47/1, 50, 56/1,  situated at 
Baichapura village Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural Distrcit. 
40565250 4056525 13.226192,77.707873 
75 32708-16 
Property Bearing Sy no. 101/1,101/2,102 situated at Sanna 
Amanikere village, Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore  
16252236 1625223.6 13°13'53.91282"N 
77°41'32.97143"E 
76 32709-16 
Sy no.133/4 Hireamanikere village, 204, 233/4, 233/3, 
212/2 situated at Sanna Amanikere Village, Kasaba Hobli, 
Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District. 
66884202 6688420.2 13.2318678, 77.6930091 
77 32822-16 
Property bearing Survey no. 46/1,45/2A, and 49, 
Byachapura Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District 
24663672 2466367.2 13.223283,77.708035 
78 32823-16 
Property bearing Survey No.47/1, 50, and 56/1, 
Baichapura Village, Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore district 
40565250 4056525 13.226192,77.707873 
79 10091-15 
Property Bearing Survey no. 187/1, Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
1372140 137214 13.298020, 77.684544 
80 10093-15 
Property Bearing Sy No.170, and 68, Situated at 
Bidalauru Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural District 
8610179 861017.85 13.288504, 77.676920 
81 10094-15 Property bearing sy no.176, Situated At Bidalur Village, 
KasabaHobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 2744280 274428 13.288176, 77.680674 
82 10096-15 
Property Bearing Sy no.49,50,51 and 55,Bidaluru 
Village,Kasaba Hobli,Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
10565478 1056547.8 13.281149 77.692668 
83 10165-15 Property bearing Sy no. 99/2, Devanahalli Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk,Bangalore Rural District 12712442 1271244.2 13.257942 77.709025 
84 10183-15 
Property bearing Sy no.189-2,Situated at Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluka, Bangalore Rural 
District, Bangalore 
5591471 559147.1 13.29603587996481, 
77.68532449609174    
85 26011-16 
Property bearing Sy no.47/1, 50, 56/1, situated at 
Baichapura village Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, 
Bangalore Rural Distrcit. 
40565599 4056559.9 13.226192,77.707873 

--- PDF PAGE 29 ---
Page 29 of 46 
86 17882-16 
Property Bearing Sy No.167, 162/1, Kodagurki village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli taluk167, 162/1,, Banglore 
Rural District 
23770798 2377079.8 13.291204,77.695881 
87 24391-16 
Property bearing Sy no. 41/p1-p1, situated at 
Kadathanamale Village, Hesaraghatta Hobli, Banglore 
North Taluk. 
10208286 1020828.6 13.226221 77.548155 
88 10029-15 
Property bearing Sy no. 17/1 and 28/2, D. Amankere 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural District 
5384016 538401.6 13.276183,77.701007 
89 10033-15 Property bearing Survey No. 59/1, Budihala Village, 
Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 8241552 824155.2 13.232979,77.735330 
90 10040-15 
Property Bearing Sy no.10, Devasthanada Amanikere 
Village, Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 
Rural. 
1184832 118483.2 13.277507, 77.696554      
91 10030-15 
Property Bearing Sy no.32/2, Devasthananda Amanikere 
Village, Devanahalli Taluk, Kasaba Hobli, Bangalore 
Rural District 
2243340 224334 13.276449,77.700600      
92 10044-15 
Property Bearing Sy no.36/2, Devasthananda Amanikere 
Village, Devanahalli Taluk, Kasaba Hobli, Bangalore 
Rural District  
1346004 134600.4 13.2786642 77.700107      
93 10086-15 Property bearing Survey No.195/1, Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 3841992 384199.2 13.292299,77.684284 
94 10087-15 Property bearing Survey No.190/3, Bidalur Village, 
Kasaba hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 9330552 933055.2 13.294599, 77.684889 
95 10088-15 Property Bearing Sy No.41/2, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 11621808 1162180.8 13.283849,77.696450 
96 10110-15 Agricultural land Bearing Sy No.170, Bidaluru, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devenahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District. 7238070 723807 13.288504,77.676920 
97 10111-15 Property Bearing Sy no. 188, Bidaluru Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahlli Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 2590731 259073.1 13.296667 77.685001 
98 10149-15 
Property Bearing Sy No.114/18,Agricultural dry Land 
measuring an extent of one acre,Gokere 
village,Chennarayapattana panchayath,kasaba 
Hobli,Devanahalli Taluk,Banglore Rural Dist  
9016920 901692 13.237463,77.740643      
99 10155-15 
Property bearing Sy no.22/2, Prasannahalli Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
22760100 2276010 13.229950, 77.702555 
100 10161-15 Property bearing Sy no.64 Devanahalli Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli taluk, Bangalore Rural District. 9276962 927696.2 13.257975,77.710035 
101 10163-15 Property bearing Survey No.64, Devanahalli Village, 
Devanahalli Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore. 9276647 927664.7 13.258059,77.709491 
102 10177-15 
Property bearing Sy no. 10 situated at Bidaluru village, 
Kasaba Hobli., Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
Distrcit 
1749479 174947.85 13.289794,77.694377 

--- PDF PAGE 30 ---
Page 30 of 46 
103 17867-16 
Property bearing Sy no.33,.Situated at 
Southegowdanahalli village,Devanahalli taluk, Bangalore 
rural district, Bangalore  
14838170 1483817 13.238661,77.733589 
104 17877-16 Property bearing Sy no.21/4, Southegowdanahalli Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore rural District 9725859 972585.9 13.238220,77.733578 
105 25076-16 
Property Bearing Survey no. 47/4, Bychapura Village, 
Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
District 
72197433 7219743.3 13.226227, 77.708777 
106 26010-16 
Survey No: 45/2B, 45/4, Bychapura Village, Kasaba 
3253932 325393.2 13.223093 77.708355 
hobli, Devanahlli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 
107 26012-16 Property Bearing Sy no.56/1,Byachapura Village, Kasaba 
Hobli, Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore Rural 3615480 361548 13.227247 77.708210 
108 17874-16 Survey no.64/1A2, Bidaluru , Kasaba Hobli, Devanahalli 
Taluk, Bangalore Rural District 10565478 1056547.8 13.280841,77.688577 
TOTAL 1362213095 136221309.5   
 
 
 
Note: 
 
Bidders are advised to note that the above Properties  are being auctioned as a single lot (the “ Lot”). Accordingly, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
the Tender Document:  
 
(i) The Bidders shall necessarily submit their bids for all the Properties; 
(ii) The Reserve Price shall be the sum total of the Reserve Prices indicated against each of the Properties above (“ Total Reserve Price”); 
(iii) A single EMD shall be submitted for an amount equivalent to 10% (ten percent) of such Total Reserve Price; and  
(iv) The withdrawal of any one or more Properties from the Lot shall be dealt with as set forth in Annexure 8 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 31 ---
Page 31 of 46 
ANNEXURE 2: 
Declaration by the Bidder(s) 
 
[To be duly updated, signed and uploaded by all Bidders on the e-auction portal] 
 
Date: ……….. 
 
To, 
The Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha Committee  
(In the Matter of PACL Limited) 
 
Sirs, 
 
1. {I/ We}, do hereby state that, {I/ we} have read the entire terms and conditions of the sale and 
the terms and conditions of the Tender Document No. _______ {insert} dated _______ {date} 
(“Tender Document”) for sale of the properties specified thereunder (“Properties”) and have 
understood them fully. {I/ We}, hereby unconditionally agree to conform with and to be bound 
by the said terms and conditions and agree to take part in the tender process. 
 
2. I/ We,  am/are bidding as a  
[tick  one of the boxes as applicable] 
 Resident Indian Citizen 
 Non-resident Indian Citizen 
 Indian Sole Proprietorship whose sole proprietor is a citizen of India 
 Hindu Undivided Family whose Karta is a citizen of India  
 Partnership firm formed under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932/ Limited liability  
 Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013 
 Society registered/ set up under laws of India 
 Trust registered/ set up under laws of India 
 Governmental Instrumentality 
 Consortium whose members are  (i) individuals (resident Indian citizens/ non-resident 
Indian citizens competent to contract under the Indian Contract Act, 1872)/ sole  
proprietorships, the concerned individual/ sole proprietor is a citizen of India; (ii) 
Hindu Undivided Families, the Karta is a citizen of India; (iii) partnership firms 
formed  under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932/ limited liability partnerships 
incorporated unde r the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the partners are 
citizens of India; and (iv) otherwise than as aforementioned, such members are entities 
covered in Clauses 2.5(i)(g), (h) (i) and/ or (j) of the Tender Document. 
 
3. {I/ We} declare that the earnest money deposit has been made by {me/ us} as against {my/ 
our} bid and that the particulars of remittance and all other information and details given by 
{me/ us} in the Bid Form and other documents as per Clause 2.8(i) of the Tender Document is 
true and correct. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 32 ---
Page 32 of 46 
4. {I/ We} further declare that the information revealed by {me/ us} in the Bid Form and other 
documents as per Clause 2.8(i) of the Tender Document is true and correct. {I/ We} understand 
and agree that if any of the statement/ information revealed by me/ us is found to be incorrect 
and/or untrue, the bid submitted by me/us is liable to be cancelled and in such case, the earnest 
money deposit and/ or any other monies paid by {me/ us } is liable to be forfeited by the 
Committee and the Committee will be at liberty to annul the offer made to me/ us at any point 
of time. 
 
5. {I/ We} also agree that after my/our offer given in my/our bid for purchase of the Properties is 
accepted by the Agency/ Committee and if, {I/ we} fail to accept or act upon the terms and 
conditions of the sale or am/ are not able to complete the transaction within the time limit 
specified for any reason whatsoever and/or fail to fulfil any/ all the terms and conditions of the 
tender process and offer letter, the earnest money deposit and any other monies paid by me/ us 
thereafter, are liable to be forfeited. 
 
6. {I/ We } understand that the EMD of all Bidders shall be retained by the Committee and 
refunded within reasona ble time only after the declaration of the Successful Bidder  or 
cancellation/ annulment of the tender process. {I/ We} state that {I/ We} have fully understood 
the terms and conditions therein and agree to be bound by the same. 
 
7. {I/ We} confirm that our participation in the tender process, submission of bid or acquisition 
of the Properties pursuant to the provisions of the Tender Document will not conflict with, or 
result in a breach of, or constitute a default under (i) our constitutional documents; or (ii ) any 
applicable laws (including the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and rules and 
regulations thereunder and guidelines/ directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India from time 
to time); or (iii) any authorisation or approval of any government agen cy or body; or (iv) any 
judgment, order, injunction, decree, or ruling of any court or governmental authority, domestic 
or foreign binding on me/ us; or (v) any agreement to which {I am/ we are} a party or by which 
{I am/ we} are bound.  
 
8. The decision taken by the Committee with respect to the selection of the Successful Bidder and 
communicated to {me/ us} through the Agency or by the Committee shall be binding on {me/ 
us}. 
 
9. {I/ We} also undertake to abide by the additional conditions if an nounced during the tender 
process including the any announcement for correction of and/ or additions or deletions to the 
time of the tender process and Properties being offered for sale. 
 
10. {I/ We} also confirm that {I/ we} have read the Bidder’s Manual  and confirm that {I am/ we 
are} fully conversant with the functionality and process. 
 
11. {I/ We} confirm that the Agency and/ or its vendors, shall not be liable and/ or responsible in 
any manner whatsoever for {my/our} failure to access and bid on the Portal due  to loss of 
internet connectivity, electricity failure, virus attack, problems with the computer, any other 
unforeseen circumstances etc. before or during the tender process. 
 
12. {I/ We}, hereby confirm that {I/ we} will honour the bids placed by {me/ us} during the tender 
process. 
 
13. {I/ We} declare that, {I/ we} are not a ‘related party’ of PACL Limited and/ or its group/ associate 
companies and/or its director(s), whether past or present, and/ or its promoter(s). In the event, the 
Committee discovers or is of  the opinion that {I/ we} are a ‘related party’ as aforesaid, the 
Committee shall be entitled to reject {my/ our} bid and/ or terminate/ cancel the sale and to forfeit 
the EMD and/ or any other monies deposited by {me/ us}, without notice to {me/ us}. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 33 ---
Page 33 of 46 
14. {I/ We} confirm that we have conducted our own investigations and analysis with respect to the 
Properties, and hereby unconditionally agree and acknowledge that t he Committee and its shall 
not have any liability to any person, including {me/ us}, under any law, statute, rules or regulations 
or tort, principles of restitution or unjust enrichment or otherwise for any loss, damages, cost or 
expense which may arise from or be incurred or suffered on account of  any information in the 
Tender Document , including the accuracy, adequacy, correctness, completeness or reliability 
thereof.  
 
_____________________________ 
Signature 
 Name: ………. 
Address: ………. 
E-mail ID: ……….  
Mobile: ………. 
  

--- PDF PAGE 34 ---
Page 34 of 46 
ANNEXURE 3:  
Technical Terms and Conditions of Tender Process for Sale of Properties 
 
1. Bidders shall have a valid e-mail ID, active mobile telephone number, and valid PAN Card to 
register with the E-Auction Service Provider. 
 
2. Bidders have to register with the E -Auction Service Provider as per the procedure mentioned 
in the Bidder’s Manual. 
 
3. Only upon verification of the documents submitted specified in Clause 2.8(i) of the Tender 
Document and confirmation of remittance of EMD will the Technically Qualified Bidders be 
declared and thereafter, permitted to access the Portal for bidding for the Properties. 
 
4. Bidders should not disclose their User ID as well as password and other material information 
relating to the bidding to anyone to safeguard its secrecy. 
 
5. Bidders are advised to change the password immediately on receipt thereof. 
 
6. All the documents specified in Clause 2.8(i) of the Tender Document are required to be 
uploaded on the Portal and the original physical copies thereof shall be provided by the 
Successful Bidder to the Committee in accordance with the Tender Document. 
 
7. All bids placed are legally valid bids and are to be considered as bids from the Bidder himself. 
Once the bid is placed, the Bidder cannot reduce or withdraw the bid for whatever reason. If 
done so, the EMD amounts of all such bidders shall be forfeited. 
 
8. The highest and the latest bid on the tender process shall supersede all the previous bids of the 
respective Bidders. The Bidder with the highest offer/ bid does not get any right to demand for 
acceptance of his bid. 
 
9. The Bidder shall be solely responsible for all consequences arising out of the bid submitted by 
him (including any wrongful bidding) and no complaint/ representation will be entertained in 
this regard by the Committee. Hence, Bidders are cautioned to be careful to check the bid 
amount and alter/rectify their bid if required before confirming the bid submitted. 
 
10. Bidders may encounter certain unforeseen problems such as time lag, heavy traffic, and system/ 
power failure at the Bidder’s end. To avoid losing out on bidding because of above-mentioned 
reasons, it is advised not to wait for the last moment. 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 35 ---
Page 35 of 46 
ANNEXURE 4: 
Format of Sale Certificate 
 
No.           Date: 
 
To, 
________ {name of Successful Bidder}, 
________ {address of Successful Bidder}. 
 
Sub: Sale certificate with reference to tender process dated____ {date} for sale of certain properties, 
details of which are provided as an Appendix I of this letter (the “Property/ ies”).  
 
1. The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has, vide order dated February 02, 2016 passed in Civil 
Appeal Nos. 13301/2015 titled  Subrata Bhattacharya vs. Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (“Order”), directed the Securities and Exchange Board of India to constitute a committee 
(the “Committee”) under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Shri Justice (Retd) R.M. Lodha, the 
former Chief Justice of India, for disposing of land/ properties purchased by PACL Limited, 
including the captioned Property/ies, so that the sale proceeds can be paid to the investors, who 
have invested their funds in the Company for purchase of the land/ properties.  
 
2. The Committee issued the Notice of Sale dated _______ {date} to commence the tender process 
for sale of the Property /ies through a tender process platform on an ‘as is where is, whatever 
there is’ basis. 
 
3. The tender process was conducted in a ccordance with the tender document for the said 
Property/ies and ________ {Name of Successful Bidder} was declared as the ‘ Successful 
Bidder’ pursuant to the tender document, having quoted a price bid of _______ {amount}, and 
thereafter deposited the entire price bid amount in accordance with the Tender Document No. 
_______ {insert} dated _______ {date}. 
 
4. Accordingly, the Committee is issuing this sale certificate (the “ Sale Certificate ”) to the 
_______ {insert} for sale of the Property/ies to _______ {insert}. 
 
5. This Sale Certificate is being issued by the Committee in accordance with: (i) the Order; (ii) 
orders dated April 05, 2016 and July 25, 2016 passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India 
in Civil Appeal No 13301/2015 together with any other subsequent order(s) that may be passed 
by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the Civil Appeal No 13301/ 2015 titled Subrata 
Bhattacharya vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India  and other connected matters; (iii) 
provisions of applicable laws; and (iv) the terms and conditions of the tender document/ notice 
of sale. 
 
 
For and on behalf of the Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha Committee  
(In the Matter of PACL Limited) 
 
 
[Name], 
[Designation], 
 
Copy to: 
  

--- PDF PAGE 36 ---
Page 36 of 46 
ANNEXURE 5: 
Format of Power of Attorney 
 
(To be executed on Stamp Paper of appropriate value and duly witnessed and notarised) 
 
Know all men by these presents, {I/ we}, ________ ,{partners of ________ {name of partnership firm/ 
limited liability partnership}/ {trustees of ________ {name of trust}/ on behalf of ________ {name of 
company/name of society/ name of Governmental Instrumentality }}, do hereby irrevocably constitute, 
nominate, appoint and authorise ________ {name}, {son/ daughter/ wife} of ________ {name} and 
presently residing at ________ {address}, and having PAN card number ________ {Insert} as the true 
and lawful attorney (“ Attorney”) to do in the name of the {partnership firm/ limited liability 
partnership/ company/ trust/ society/ Governmental Instrumentality / consortium} {“ Bidder/ Lead 
Member”} and on the {Bidder’s/Lead Member’s}  behalf, all such acts, deeds and things as are 
necessary or required in connection with or incidental to submission of the {Bidder’s/Lead Member’s} 
bid in response to the Tender Document No. _______ {insert} dated ______ _ {date} (“ Tender 
Document”) for sale of the properties specified thereunder  (“Properties”) issued by Justice (Retd.) 
R.M. Lodha Committee (In the Matter of PACL Limited) (“Committee”) including but not limited to 
signing and submission of all applications , affidavits, bids and other documents and writings, and 
providing information/ responses to the Committee, representing the {Bidder/Lead Member}  in all 
matters before the Committee, and generally dealing with the Committee in all matters in connection 
with or relating to or arising out of the {Bidder’s/Lead Member’s} bid for the Properties. 
 
AND {I/ we} hereby agree to ratify and confirm and do hereby ratify and confirm all acts, deeds and 
things done or caused to be done b y the Attorney pursuant to and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by this power of attorney and that all acts, deeds and things done by said Attorney in exercise of the 
powers hereby conferred shall and shall always be deemed to have been done by the {Bidder/ Lead 
Member}. 
 
In witness whereof {I/ we}, ________ ,{partners of ________ {name of partnership firm/ limited 
liability partnership}/ {trustees of ________________ {name of trust} / on behalf of ________ {name 
of company/ name of society/ name of Gove rnmental Instrumentality}}, have executed this power of 
attorney on this ________ {date} day of ________ {month}, ________ {Year}. 
 
For…………………………….. 
(Signature, name, designation and address)  
 
{under the Common Seal (in case {Bidders/Lead Member} is a company)} 
 
Witnesses:  
 
1. 
 
2. 
 
{particulars of notarisation} 
 
Accepted 
 
{particulars of authorized person} 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 37 ---
Page 37 of 46 
Notes: 
 
1. The executant of the power of attorney shall, in case of a company, be a manager, officer or 
employee of the company duly authorise d by the board of directors of the company (a certified 
copy of the board resolution shall be enclosed with the power of attorney). 
 
2. The executant of the power of attorney shall, in case of a society, be duly authorized by the 
managing body of the society (a certified copy of which authorisation shall be enclosed with the 
power of attorney). 
 
3. The executants of the power of attorney shall, in case of a partnership firm, limited liability 
partnership or trust, be duly authorised by the relevant charter document (a self-certified copy of 
which charter document shall be enclosed with the power of attorney). 
 
4. In case of a Governmental Instrumentality, the executant of the power of attorney shall  be duly 
authorised in accordance with the governance framework applicable to such entity.  
  

--- PDF PAGE 38 ---
Page 38 of 46 
ANNEXURE 6: 
Joint Bidding Agreement 
[To be submitted only when the Bidder is a Consortium] 
 
(To be executed on stamp paper of the appropriate value) 
 
This joint bidding agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into on this ________ {date} day of ________ 
{month}, ________ {year}amongst:  
 
1. ________, having PAN number ________, a {resident Indian citizen/ non -resident Indian 
citizen/ Hindu Undivided Family/ Indian Sole proprietorship/ Partnership firm formed under 
the Indian Partnership Act, 1932/ Limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008/ Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013/ 
Society registered/ set up under laws of India/ Trust registered/ set up under la ws of India / 
Governmental Instrumentality}, and having {their/ its} {address/ registered office} at  
________ {insert} (hereinafter referred to as the “Party of the First Part ” which expression 
shall, unless repugnant to the context include its successors and permitted assigns); 
 
2. ________, having PAN number ________, a {resident Indian citizen/ non -resident Indian 
citizen/ Hindu Undivided Family/ Indian Sole proprietorship/ Partnership firm formed under 
the Indian Partnership Act, 1932/ Limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008/ Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013/ 
Society registered/ set up under laws of India/ Trust registered/ set up under laws of India / 
Governmental Instrumentality  }, and having {their/ its} {address/ registered office} at  
________ {insert} (hereinafter referred to as the “Party of the Second Part” which expression 
shall, unless repugnant to the context include its successors and permitted assigns); and 
 
3. {add additional rows if there are more members in the Consortium} 
 
The above mentioned parties of the FIRST, SECOND, {insert} PART are collectively referred to as the 
“Parties” and severally referred to as a “Party” 
 
WHEREAS,  
 
A. The Justice (Retd) R.M. Lodha Committee (in the matter of PACL L imited) (“Committee”) 
has invited bids (the “Bids”) by its Tender Document No. _____{number} dated _____{date} 
(“Tender Document”) for sale of the properties specified thereunder (“Properties”). 
 
B. The Parties are interested in jointly bidding for the Properties as members of a Consortium and 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Tender Document; and  
 
C. It is a necessary condition under the Tender Document that the members of a consortium shall 
enter into a joint bidding agreement and furnish a copy thereof with their bid.  
 
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:  
 
1. Definitions and Interpretations  
 
In this Agreement, the capitalised terms shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the 
meaning ascribed thereto under the Tender Document.  
 
2. Consortium 
 
2.1 The Parties do hereby irrevocably constitute a consortium (the “Consortium”) for the purposes 
of jointly participating in the tender process for the Properties.  

--- PDF PAGE 39 ---
Page 39 of 46 
 
2.2 The Parties hereby undertake to participate in the tender process only through this Consortium 
and not individually and/ or through any other consortium constituted for this Properties. 
 
2.3 The Parties do hereby undertake and declare that ________, having PAN number ________, a 
{resident Indian citizen/ non -resident Indian citizen/  Hindu Undivided Family/  Indian Sole 
proprietorship/ Partnership firm formed under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932/ Limited 
liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008/ Company 
incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013/ Society registered/ set up under laws of 
India/ Trust registered/ set up under laws of India/ Governmental Instrumentality}, and having 
{their/ its} {address/ registered office} at  ________ { insert} ( the “Lead Member ”) shall 
represent all the members of the Consortium and shall at all times be liable and responsible for 
discharging the  functions and obligations of the Consortium; and that each member of the 
Consortium shall be bound by any decision, communication, notice, action or inaction of the 
Lead Member on any matter related to this Agreement and the Committee shall be entitled to 
rely upon any such action, decision or communication of the Lead Member. 
 
3. Joint and Several Liability  
 
The Parties do hereby undertake to be jointly and severally responsible for all obligations and 
liabilities relating to the purchase of the Properties and in accordance with the terms of the 
Tender Document and Sale Certificate. 
 
4. Representation of the Parties  
 
Each Party represents to the other Parties as of the date of this Agreement that this Agreement 
is the legal and binding obligation of such Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms 
against it.  
 
5. Termination  
 
This Agreement shall be effective from the date hereof and shall continue in full force and effect 
until the issuance of the Sale Certificate, in case the Consortium  is the Successful Bidder . 
However, in case the Consortium is either not declared a Technically Qualified Bidder or is not 
the Successful Bidder, this Agreement will stand terminated upon return of the EMD by the 
Committee to the Bidder. 
 
6. Miscellaneous  
 
(i) This Agreement shall be governed by laws of India.  
 
(ii) The Parties acknowledge and accept that this Agreement shall not be amended by the 
Parties without the prior written consent of the Committee.  
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES ABOVE NAMED HAVE EXECUTED AND 
DELIVERED THIS AGREEMENT AS OF THE DATE FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN.  
 
Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
  
For and Behalf of the First Part   
 
(Signature)  
(Name) 
(Designation) 
(Address)  
Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
  
For and Behalf of the Second Part   
 
(Signature)  
(Name) 
(Designation) 
(Address) 

--- PDF PAGE 40 ---
Page 40 of 46 
 
Notes: 
1. The executants of the joint bidding agreement shall, in case of a company, be a manager, officer or 
employee of the company duly authorised by the board of directors of the company (a certified copy 
of the board resolution shall be enclosed with the joint bidding agreement). 
2. The executants of the joint bidding agreement shall, in case of a society, be duly authorized by the 
managing body of the society (a ce rtified copy of which authorisation shall be enclosed with the 
joint bidding agreement). 
3. The executants of the joint bidding agreement shall, in case of a partnership firm, limited liability 
partnership or trust, be duly authorised by the relevant charter document (a self-certified copy of 
which charter document shall be enclosed with the joint bidding agreement). 
4. The joint bidding agreement shall be suitably amended in case the number of bidders bidding jointly 
is more than 2 (two).  
5. In case of a Governmen tal Instrumentality, the executant of the joint bidding agreement shall be 
duly authorised in accordance with the governance framework applicable to such entity.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 41 ---
Page 41 of 46 
ANNEXURE 7: 
Power of Attorney for Lead Member of a Consortium 
[To be submitted only when the Bidder is a Consortium] 
 
(To be executed on Stamp Paper of appropriate value and duly witnessed and notarised) 
 
Know all men by these presents, that we, being member of a consortium (the “Consortium”) interested 
in bidding for the properties (the “Properties”) in response to the Tender Document No. _______ 
{insert} dated _______ {date} (“Tender Document”) issued by Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha Committee 
(In the Matter of PACL Limited) (“Committee”): 
 
1. ________, having PAN number ________, being a {resident Indian citizen/ non-resident Indian 
citizen/ Hindu Undivided Family/  Indian Sole proprietorship/ partnership firm formed under 
the Indian Partnership Act, 1932/ limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008/ company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013/ 
society registered/ set up under laws of India/ trust registered/ set up under laws of India / 
Governmental Instrumentality}; 
 
2. ________, having PAN number ________, being a {resident Indian citizen/ non-resident Indian 
citizen/ Hindu Undivided Family/  Indian Sole proprietorship/ partnership firm formed under 
the Indian Partnership Act, 1932/ limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited 
Liability Partnership Act, 2008/ company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956/ 2013/ 
society registered/ set up under laws of India/ trust registered/ set up under laws of India / 
Governmental Instrumentality}; 
 
3. {add additional rows if there are more members in the Consortium}  
 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the “ Principals”) do hereby irrevocably constitute, nominate, 
appoint and authorise M/s …………………{name of Lead Member} , and having PAN card number  
________ {Insert}, being one of the members of the Consortium, as the lead member of the Consortium, 
and true and lawful attorney of the Consortium (“Attorney”) to do in the name of the Consortium and 
on the Consortium’s behalf, all such acts, deeds and things as are necessary or required in connection 
with or incidental to submission of the Consortium’s bid in response to the Tender Document, including 
but not limited to signing and submission of all applications, affidavits, bids and other documents and 
writings, and providing information/ responses to the Committee, representing the Consortium in all 
matters before the Committee, and generally dealing with the Committee in all matters in connection 
with or relating to or arising out of the Consortium’s bid for the Properties. 
 
AND we hereby agree to ratify and confirm and do hereby ratify and confirm all acts, deeds and things 
done or caused to be done by the Attorney pursuant to and in exercise of the powers conferred by this 
power of attorney and that all acts, deeds and thing s done by said Attorney in exercise of the powers 
hereby conferred shall and shall always be deemed to have been done by the Consortium. 
 
In witness whereof we , the Principals above named , have executed this power of attorney on this 
________ {date} day of ________ {month}, ________ {year}. 
 
For…………………………….. 
 
(Signature, name, designation and address)  
 
{under the Common Seal (in case Bidder is a company)} 
 
For…………………………….. 
 
(Signature, name, designation and address)  

--- PDF PAGE 42 ---
Page 42 of 46 
 
{under the Common Seal (in case Bidder is a company)} 
 
 
 
Witnesses:  
 
1. 
 
2. 
 
{particulars of notarisation} 
 
Accepted 
 
{particulars of Lead Member} 
 
Notes: 
1. The executants of the power of attorney shall, in case of a company, be a manager, officer or 
employee of the company duly authorised by the board of directors of the company (a certified copy 
of the board resolution shall be enclosed with the power of attorney). 
2. The ex ecutants of the power of attorney shall, in case of a society, be duly authorized by the 
managing body of the society (a certified copy of which authorisation shall be enclosed with the 
power of attorney). 
3. The executants of the power of attorney shall, in case of a partnership firm, limited liability 
partnership or trust, be duly authorised by the relevant charter document (a self -certified copy of 
which charter document shall be enclosed with the power of attorney). 
4. The power of attorney shall be suitably amended in case the number of bidders bidding jointly is 
more than 2 (two).  
5. In case of a Governmental Instrumentality, the executant of the power of attorney shall be duly 
authorised in accordance with the governance framework applicable to such entity.  
 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 43 ---
Page 43 of 46 
ANNEXURE 8: 
Treatment of Properties Auctioned as a Single Lot 
 
1. Withdrawal / Addition of Property/ies Before Bid Due Date  
 
1.1 Any one or more Properties may, by way of issuance of an amendment/ corrigendum to this 
effect, be withdrawn, or added to, from the tender process, for any reason whatsoever, prior to 
the last date of uploading of documents specified in Clause 2.8(i) and payment of EMD 
stipulated in Clause 3.2 of the Tender Document (“Bid Due Date”).  
 
1.2 In such an event, the Total Reserve Price (and, consequently the amount of the EMD) shall be 
revised/ adjusted to the extent of the Reserve Price of such withdrawn or added Property/ies as 
indicated in Annexure 1 of the Tender Document. 
 
1.3 If the amendment/ corrigendum is issued at least 15 (fifteen) days prior to the Bid Due Date, 
the Bid Due Date will not be extended.  
 
1.4 Where a Bidder has already submitted their EMD prior to issuance of the amendment/ 
corrigendum; 
 
 In case of withdrawal of  Property/ies, the EMD shall not be refunded or liable to be 
adjusted, and such EMD shall be treated as the valid EMD submitted by such Bidder 
and refunded in the manner set out in Clause 2.19 of the Tender Document. 
 
 In case of addition of Property/ies, t he Bidder shall be required to submit the 
additional/differential EMD amount corresponding to the newly added Property/ies 
on or before the Bid Due Date in order to remain eligible. 
 
1.5 If the amendment/ corrigendum is issued on the date which is 15 (fifteen) days prior to the Bid 
Due Date or later, the Bid Due Date shall be extended up to the date which is 15 (fifteen) days 
from the date of the amendment/ corrigendum. 
 
An illustrative example of such adjustment of Reserve Price and EMD Amount is depicted 
below: 
 
Table 1: Illustrative Example of Reserve Prices and EMDs as on date of Tender 
Publication 
 
Sl. No. MR No. Reserve Price (Rs.) EMD Amount (Rs.) 
1 MR123_17 3,50,000 35,000 
2 MR124_17 7,00,000 70,000 
3 MR125_17 1,25,600 12,560 
4 MR126_17 10,00,500 1,00,050 
5 MR127_17 7,86,600 78,660 
6 MR128_17 7,62,500 76,250 
7 MR129_17 9,77,600 97,760 
8 MR133_17 18,85,700 1,88,570 
9 MR134_17 1,17,800 11,780 
10 MR150_17 4,08,300 40,830 
11 MR160_17 2,20,200 22,020 

--- PDF PAGE 44 ---
Page 44 of 46 
Sl. No. MR No. Reserve Price (Rs.) EMD Amount (Rs.) 
 Total 73,34,800 7,33,480 
 
Once the Committee withdraws specific properties a corrigendum to the same effect shall be 
published and the “Total Reserve Price” and “Total EMD Amount” shall be reduced and 
notified via the corrigendum. An illustration of such reduction is provided below: 
 
Table 2: Illustrative Example Reserve Prices and EMDs after withdrawal of specific 
properties 
 
Sl. No. MR No. Reserve Price (Rs.) EMD Amount (Rs.) 
1 MR123_17 3,50,000 35,000 
2 MR124_17 7,00,000 70,000 
3 MR125_17 1,25,600 12,560 
4 Dropped NA NA 
5 MR127_17 7,86,600 78,660 
6 MR128_17 7,62,500 76,250 
7 MR129_17 9,77,600 97,760 
8 Dropped NA NA 
9 MR134_17 1,17,800 11,780 
10 MR150_17 4,08,300 40,830 
11 MR160_17 2,20,200 22,020 
 Total 44,48,600 4,44,860 
 
 
An illustrative example of such addition of Reserve Price and EMD Amount is depicted below: 
 
If specific properties are added by the Committee  a corrigendum to the that  effect shall be 
published and the “Total Reserve Price” and “Total EMD Amount” shall be revised and notified 
via the corrigendum. An illustration of such reduction is provided below: 
 
Table 3: Illustrative Example Reserve Prices and EMDs after Addition of specific 
properties 
 
Sl. No. MR No. Reserve Price (Rs.) EMD Amount (Rs.) 
1 MR123_17 3,50,000 35,000 
2 MR124_17 7,00,000 70,000 
3 MR125_17 1,25,600 12,560 
4 MR126_17 10,00,500 1,00,050 
5 MR127_17 7,86,600 78,660 
6 MR128_17 7,62,500 76,250 
7 MR129_17 9,77,600 97,760 
8 MR133_17 18,85,700 1,88,570 
9 MR134_17 1,17,800 11,780 

--- PDF PAGE 45 ---
Page 45 of 46 
Sl. No. MR No. Reserve Price (Rs.) EMD Amount (Rs.) 
10 MR150_17 4,08,300 40,830 
11 MR160_17 2,20,200 22,020 
      12 Added Property 2,25,000 22,500 
      13 Added Property 2,50,000 25,000 
 Total 78,09,800 7,80,980 
 
 
2. Withdrawal of Properties after Bid Due Date but Before Date of Online Tender Process 
 
2.1 In the event any one or more Properties are proposed to be withdrawnfrom the tender process, 
 for any reason whatsoever, after Bid Due Date but before the date of online tender process, the 
Bidders shall be informed about the revised list of properties and revised Reserve Price, at least 
5 (five) working days prior to the date of live e-auction. 
 
2.2 Each Bidder who is willing to participate in live e-auction of the revised list of Properties, will 
mandatorily have to confirm via providing a signed undertaking for the same. The format of the 
undertaking will be provided by the Committee along with the intimation of revised list of 
Properties.  
 
2.3 Only those Bidders who provide the undertaking within the stipulated timeframe will be 
allowed to participate in the live e-auction of the revised list of Properties. 
 
3. Withdrawal  of  Properties after the Date of the Online Tender Process but  before the 
Issuance of Sale Certificate 
 
3.1 In the event any one or more Properties are to be withdrawn  from the tender process, for any 
reason whatsoever, after the date of online tender process but before the Issuance of Sale 
Certificate, the entire tender process may, at the sole discretion of the Committee, be cancelled, 
in which case the EMDs of all the Bidders, and any amounts furnished by the Successful Bidder 
shall be refunded.  
 
3.2 Alternatively, the Successful Bidder may, at the sole discretion of the Committee, be given an 
option to proceed with purchasing the Lot after removal of the withdrawn Properties  subject to 
the highest price bid submitted by such Successful Bidder being reduced pro rata to the extent 
of the withdrawn or addition of Properties (the pro rata reduction being undertaken as per the 
Reserve Prices of such Properties as specified in Annexure 1 of the Tender Document). It is 
clarified that, in such an instance, the EMD submitted by the Successful Bidder shall not be 
liable to be refunded, and shall be adjusted in full (without any reduction) as set out in Clause 
2.14(i). 
 
An example using the information in Table 1 and Table 2 is provided below.  
 
a. Let us assume for the purposes of this example that the H1 Bid is Rs. 95,00,000 
 
b. Let us also assume that properties listed under Sl. No. 4 and Sl. No. 8 are withdrawn 
by the Committee after the conclusion of the e-auction process. 
 
c. Thus, the revised H1 Bid value as computed by the Committee will be as follows: 
 

--- PDF PAGE 46 ---
Page 46 of 46 
 
Table 4: Revised H1 Bid Value Calculation 
 
Sl. 
No. 
MR No. Reserve Price 
(Rs.) 
Share in Reserve 
Price 
Allocated H1 Bid 
Value (Rs.) 
Revised H1 Bid 
Value Payable 
(Rs.) 
1 MR123_17 3,50,000 4.77% 4,53,318 4,53,318 
2 MR124_17 7,00,000 9.54% 9,06,637 9,06,637 
3 MR125_17 1,25,600 1.71% 1,62,677 1,62,677 
4 Dropped 10,00,500 13.64% 12,95,843 - 
5 MR127_17 7,86,600 10.72% 10,18,801 10,18,801 
6 MR128_17 7,62,500 10.40% 9,87,587 9,87,587 
7 MR129_17 9,77,600 13.33% 12,66,183 12,66,183 
8 Dropped 18,85,700 25.71% 24,42,350 - 
9 MR134_17 1,17,800 1.61% 1,52,574 1,52,574 
10 MR150_17 4,08,300 5.57% 5,28,828 5,28,828 
11 MR160_17 2,20,200 3.00% 2,85,202 2,85,202 
 Total 73,34,800 100.00% 95,00,000 57,61,807 
 
 
 
 