     Press Release



                                                  Delhi International Airport Limited
                                                                    September 15, 2026

    Facilities/Instruments                 Name of the Regulator1                   Amount (₹ crore)                 Rating2           Rating Action
    Non-convertible debentures             SEBI                                        3,500.00                   CARE AA; Stable        Assigned
    Non-convertible debentures             SEBI                                        1,000.00                   CARE AA; Stable       Reaffirmed
    Issuer rating                          -                                               -                            -               Withdrawn
Details of instruments/facilities in Annexure-1.

Issuer Ratings: There is no instrument being rated and hence, Regulator of the Instrument is not applicable. The rating scale and definitions are
being followed as stipulated in SEBI Master Circular for CRAs.


Rationale and key rating drivers
CARE Ratings Limited (CareEdge Ratings) has reaffirmed ratings assigned to non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of ₹1,000 crore
while assigning ratings to proposed NCDs of ₹3,500 crore. Proposed NCDs of ₹3,500 shall be used to refinance amount outstanding
in respect of USD Notes of ₹3,494 crore and for payment of transaction-related costs. Reaffirmation in ratings of Delhi International
Airport Limited (DIAL) considers significant growth in aeronautical revenue following the implementation of the tariff order from
April 16, 2025, onwards for the control period (CP) CP-4 (April 01, 2024, to March 31, 2029) in line with earlier estimates and
continued healthy growth in the non-aero revenue. Ratings also take note of resilient passenger traffic at DIAL, with FY26
passenger traffic remaining stable at 78.7 million despite the ongoing geopolitical tension. Passenger traffic registered a y-o-y
growth of 6.9% in Q1FY27 against corresponding period in the last year.

Non-aero revenue grew by ~9% in FY26 despite muted passenger traffic growth, driven by improved spend per passenger and
full-year impact of additional leasable area from Terminal-1 expansion. Going forward, favourable growth outlook on international
traffic, aided by increase in capacity for international passengers and transfer traffic is expected to support DIAL’s non-aero
revenue and generation as estimated shall remain key rating monitorable.

Ratings also factor in the significant improvement in DIAL’s leverage in FY26, supported by a healthy growth in scale of operations
and operating profitability.

Going forward, steady growth in passenger traffic, increase in non-aeronautical revenue and no major debt-funded capex is
expected to support further improvement in its leverage. Material increase in indebtedness impacting threshold leverage indicators
is a key rating sensitivity. DIAL is anticipated to complete a substantial portion of its land monetisation plans in the next 1-2 years,
which shall lead to inflow of substantial refundable security deposits, which per the management’s articulation shall be utilised
for deleveraging and meeting capital expense requirement. Fructification of these plans and consequent material reduction in
debt levels shall be key positive rating sensitivity.

Ratings continue to factor strong market position of DIAL being largest airport of India, ring fencing of cash flows and longer
concession period. Longer residual concession period with provision of extension of 30 years at the request of DIAL post 25 th
anniversary entails strong financial flexibility.

These strengths are partly offset by traffic and cargo diversion risk due to competing Noida Airport, moderate leverage and bullet
repayments exposing the company to refinancing risk. However, DIAL’s extensive catchment area, robust connectivity, its plans
to cater higher international traffic, relatively lower yield per passenger, and regulated business model with true-up provisions
shall partially mitigate potential decline in passenger traffic due to the new airport. Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of
India (AERA) has factored in the traffic impact from Noida Airport per the third-party consultant report in its traffic projections for
CP-4. Ratings also take cognisance of a favourable ruling by the Honourable Delhi High Court for DIAL regarding revenue share
payments to the Airports Authority of India (AAI, rated ‘CARE AAA; Stable / CARE A1+’) for the COVID-19 period. AAI has
challenged this decision before the Delhi High Court, and the matter is currently sub-judice. Adverse developments affecting
DIAL’s liquidity will be a key rating monitorable.

In accordance with CareEdge Ratings‘ withdrawal policy, the issuer rating assigned to DIAL, is withdrawn with immediate effect
at the company’s request.


1
 SEBI: Securities and Exchange Board of India; RBI: Reserve Bank of India; MCA: Ministry of Corporate Affairs; IRDAI: Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority of India; PFRDA: Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority.

Complete definitions of ratings assigned are available at www.careratings.com and in other CARE Ratings Limited’s publications.
2




         1                                                                                                                          CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Rating sensitivities: Factors likely to lead to rating actions

Positive factors
 •      Higher-than-anticipated non-aero revenues and monetisation of real estate leading to significant deleveraging.

Negative factors
 •     Decline in passenger traffic below 80 million from FY27 onwards on a sustained basis.
 •     Deteriorating net debt to profit before interest, lease rentals, depreciation and taxation (PBILDT) above 5x on a sustained
       basis.
 •     Crystallising contingent liabilities leading to deteriorating debt coverage indicators.

Analytical approach: Standalone

Outlook: Stable
In the medium term, CareEdge Ratings expects DIAL’s business and financial profiles to be driven by its strong market position,
longer concession period, and steady growth in revenue.

Detailed description of key rating drivers

Key strengths
Strong market position as an operator of India’s largest airport
DIAL is the largest airport in India, considering passenger handling capacity. Following the completion of Phase 3A capex, DIAL’s
passenger handling capacity increased from 66 million to 100 million passengers per annum, which started commercial operations
in August 2024. DIAL handled 78.7 million passengers in FY26 compared to 79.3 million passengers in FY25, reflecting a marginal
decline of 0.8% on a high traffic base, amid temporary aviation-sector disruptions and ongoing geopolitical events. In Q1FY27,
DIAL handled 20.4 million passengers reflecting a steady growth of 6.9% on y-o-y basis.

Significant increase in aeronautical revenue following implementation of revised tariff order
DIAL’s aeronautical revenue profile improved significantly following implementation of AERA’s final tariff order for CP-4 from April
16, 2025. Consequently, aeronautical revenue increased sharply to ₹3,011 crore in FY26 from ₹1,153 crore in FY25, despite muted
passenger traffic growth in the year. DIAL reported aeronautical revenue of ₹785 crore in Q1FY27.

Resilient growth in non-aero revenue
DIAL’s non-aeronautical revenue continued to grow in FY26 despite muted passenger traffic growth, supported by higher spend
per passenger and full-year benefit of increased leasable area from Terminal-1 expansion. International passengers constituted
~27% of total passengers handled by DIAL, which supports comparatively better duty-free and retail revenue potential. CareEdge
Ratings expects steady growth in non-aeronautical revenue in the medium term, driven by recovery in passenger traffic,
favourable outlook on international traffic, and DIAL’s established position as a major transfer hub with relatively higher transfer
traffic compared to other Indian airports.

Favourable arbitration ruling for revenue share payable to AAI
In January 2024, DIAL received a favourable arbitration ruling on revenue share payments to AAI for the COVID-19 period. In
September 2020, DIAL invoked force majeure clause under the operation, management and development agreement (OMDA),
seeking relief from revenue share payments to AAI due to the impact of COVID-19. DIAL made payments to AAI from March 2020
to December 2020. Following an interim order from Honourable Delhi High Court, DIAL stopped revenue-sharing payments to
AAI from January 2021, leading to arbitration. The tribunal ordered a refund of ~₹465 crore, and interest to DIAL, for payments
made in March 2020 to December 2020. It also exempted DIAL from revenue-sharing payments for January 2021 to February
2022, and extension of concession period by 23 months. AAI has challenged this decision in the Honourable Delhi High Court,
and the High court has upheld the tribunal’s order in March 2025. AAI has deposited ₹471 crore with the High Court, including
revenue share amount and interest. Adverse developments affecting DIAL’s liquidity will be key rating monitorable.

Monetisation potential of real estate
DIAL has ~230 acre of designated land for commercial property development (CPD) and receives real estate revenue in the form
of upfront refundable security deposits (RSD), which are refunded at the end of concession, upfront non-refundable advance
development cost (ADC) for facilitating common infrastructure development and recurring annual licence fee (ALF) till the end of




       2                                                                                                      CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



concession. DIAL is in the process of monetising additional land parcel and developing some land parcel for onward sale. Timely
monetisation of land parcel leading to substantial deleveraging is key rating monitorable.

Ring fencing of cash flows
DIAL’s cash flow is ring fenced from its parent, GMR Airports Limited (formerly GMR Airports Infrastructure Limited, GAL, rated
‘CARE AA-; Stable / CARE A1+’). The ring-fenced structure is strengthened by the presence of Groupe ADP as a co-promoter of
GAL (32.3% stake) with equal board representation as on 31-March-26. Groupe ADP and AAI representatives are present on
DIAL’s board. Presence of a trust and retention account (TRA) with a payment waterfall mechanism ensures priority of debt
servicing and restrict free movement of funds within group companies.

Key weaknesses
Inherent traffic diversion risk from Noida Airport
DIAL is exposed to the traffic diversion risk from Noida International Airport Limited, which commenced operations in June 2026
with initial capacity of 12 million passengers per annum. However, the impact is expected to be moderated by DIAL’s strong
market position as the primary airport for Delhi-NCR, extensive catchment area, established domestic and international
connectivity, and high transfer traffic. AERA’s CP-4 traffic projections have already factored in the commencement of Noida
Airport, while the regulated tariff framework provides comfort through true-up mechanism in case of material variation in
passenger traffic. Ramp-up in operations and future capacity expansion at Noida Airport remain key monitorable, given their
potential impact on DIAL’s passenger traffic growth and deleveraging trajectory. Considering relatively higher revenue sharing
46% to AAI and capacity expansion plans at Noida Airport, DIAL’s ability to deleverage the capital structure is key rating
monitorable.

Moderately leveraged capital structure and risk related to re-financing
DIAL’s leverage improved significantly in FY26, with net debt/PBILDT reducing to 4.82x from 10.07x in FY25. Going forward,
steady growth in passenger traffic, higher non-aeronautical revenue and real estate revenue, and absence of debt-funded capex
in the medium term, is expected to support further improvement in leverage. DIAL continues to remain exposed to refinancing
risk, given the bullet repayment structure of its debt instruments. DIAL has bullet repayments due in October 2026 of ₹3,494
crore and June 2029 of ₹3,500 crore, which exposes DIAL to refinancing risk. Proposed NCDs of ₹3,500 shall be used to refinance
amount outstanding in respect of USD Notes of ₹3,494 crore and for payment of transaction-related costs. However, given the
strong airport asset, past track record of refinancing well in advance of maturity date and financial flexibility from residual
concession life alleviates the refinancing risk.

Liquidity: Strong
DIAL has adequate liquidity with ₹1,822 crore of free cash and bank balance apart from ₹33 crore earmarked for the capex as on
June 30, 2026. DIAL has unutilised fund-based working capital limits of ₹733 crore as on June 30, 2026. Fund-based utilisation
remained nil for the last 12 months.

Assumptions/Covenants: Not applicable

Environment, social, and governance (ESG) risks: Not applicable

Applicable criteria
 Policy on Default Recognition
 Issuer Rating
 Liquidity Analysis of Non-financial sector entities
 Assigning ‘Outlook’ or ‘Rating Watch’ to Credit Ratings
 Financial Ratios – Non financial Sector
 Airports Companies
 Infrastructure Sector Ratings
 Withdrawal Policy


About the company and industry

Industry classification
 Macroeconomic indicator         Sector                         Industry                        Basic industry
 Services                        Services                       Transport infrastructure        Airport and airport services


       3                                                                                                  CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



DIAL is a joint venture responsible for operating, managing, and developing the Indira Gandhi International Airport at New Delhi.
DIAL was formed in 2006 as part of India's initiative to modernise its airports through public-private partnerships. The Government
of India handed over the operations of IGI Airport to DIAL under a 30-year concession (Ending in 2036), extendable by another
30 years. GAL holds a 74% stake while balance 26% is held by AAI. GAL acquired additional stake of 10% from AG Frankfurt
Airport Services Worldwide in March 2025.

  Brief Financials (₹ crore)              March 31, 2025 (A)                    March 31, 2026 (A)           Q1 FY27 (UA)
 Total operating income                                    5,433                                 7,568                       2,022
 PBILDT*                                                   1,453                                 2,797                         658
 Profit after tax (PAT)                                     -976                                   477                          70
 Overall gearing (x)                                       53.51                                 21.22                          NA
 Interest coverage (x)                                      0.86                                  1.82                        1.67
A: Audited; UA: Unaudited; Note: these are latest available financial results
*PBILDT: Profit before interest, lease rentals, depreciation and tax

Status of non-cooperation with previous CRA: Not applicable

Any other information: Not applicable

Rating history for last three years: Annexure-2

Detailed explanation of covenants of rated instrument / facility: Annexure-3

For complexity level of instruments rated refer to Annexure-1

Lender details: Annexure-4

Disclosure on facilities/instruments and name of regulators:
A list of facilities / instruments falling under the purview of financial sector regulators (FSRs) along with the names of respective
FSRs has been duly disclosed by CareEdge Ratings on its website. A link to the same has been provided below for ready reference:

https://www.careratings.com/activities_and_regulators

Note: For facilities or instruments falling under the purview of FSRs other than Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI),
the grievance / dispute redressal mechanisms and investor protection mechanisms provided by SEBI shall not be available.

Annexure-1: Details of instruments/facilities
                                                                      Date of                                          Rating
Name of    Name of                                                                              Maturity Size of the
                                Complexity                           Issuance       Coupon                            Assigned
the        the                                        ISIN                                     Date (DD-    Issue
                                Level                                (DD-MM-       Rate (%)                          and Rating
Instrument Regulator                                                                           MM-YYYY) (₹ crore)
                                                                      YYYY)                                           Outlook
Debentures-
Non                             Highly                                                                                  CARE AA;
            SEBI                                    Proposed              -            -           -       3500.00
Convertible                     Complex                                                                                  Stable
Debentures
Debentures-
Non                             Highly                                01-Sep-                   01-Sep-                 CARE AA;
            SEBI                                 INE657H08068                       Variable               1000.00
Convertible                     Complex                                2025                      2040                    Stable
Debentures
Issuer
Rating-
            -                                            -                -            -           -         0.00      Withdrawn
Issuer
Ratings




        4                                                                                                      CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Annexure-2: Rating history for last three years
                                               Current Ratings                               Rating History

                                                                             Date(s)      Date(s)      Date(s)     Date(s)
                Name of the
                                                                             and          and          and         and
  Sr. No.       Instrument/Bank                  Amount
                                                                             Rating(s)    Rating(s)    Rating(s)   Rating(s)
                Facilities          Type         Outstanding        Rating
                                                                             assigned     assigned     assigned    assigned
                                                 (₹ crore)
                                                                             in 2026-     in 2025-     in 2024-    in 2023-
                                                                             2027         2026         2025        2024
                                                                                          1)CARE
                                                                                          AA; Stable
                                                                                          (23-Jul-     1)CARE
                                                                             1)CARE
                                                                                          25)          AA-;
                Issuer Rating-                                               AA; Stable
     1                                  LT              -           -                                  Positive    -
                Issuer Ratings                                               (21-Jul-
                                                                                          2)CARE       (09-Oct-
                                                                             26)
                                                                                          AA; Stable   24)
                                                                                          (16-Apr-
                                                                                          25)
                                                                             1)CARE       1)CARE
                Debentures-Non                                      CARE
                                                                             AA; Stable   AA; Stable
     2          Convertible             LT          1000.00         AA;                                -           -
                                                                             (21-Jul-     (23-Jul-
                Debentures                                          Stable
                                                                             26)          25)
                Debentures-Non                                      CARE
     3          Convertible             LT          3500.00         AA;
                Debentures                                          Stable
LT: Long term

Annexure-3: Detailed explanation of covenants of rated instruments/facilities: Not applicable

Annexure-4: Lender details
 To view lender-wise details of bank facilities please click here

Note on complexity levels of rated instruments: CareEdge Ratings has classified instruments rated by it based on
complexity. Investors/market intermediaries/regulators or others are welcome to write to care@careedge.in for clarifications.




         5                                                                                                 CARE Ratings Ltd.
    Press Release



                                                                             Contact us

 Media Contact                                                                         Analytical Contacts

 Mradul Mishra                                                                         Rajashree Murkute
 Director                                                                              Senior Director
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  CARE Ratings Limited
 Phone: +91-22-6754 3596                                                               Phone: +91-22-6837 4474
 E-mail: mradul.mishra@careedge.in                                                     E-mail: rajashree.murkute@careedge.in

 Relationship Contact                                                                  Maulesh Desai
                                                                                       Director
 Saikat Roy                                                                            CARE Ratings Limited
 Senior Director                                                                       Phone: 079-4026 5605
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  E-mail: maulesh.desai@careedge.in
 Phone: 912267543404
 E-mail: saikat.roy@careedge.in                                                        Palak Sahil Vyas
                                                                                       Associate Director
                                                                                       CARE Ratings Limited
                                                                                       Phone: 079-4026 5620
                                                                                       E-mail: palak.gandhi@careedge.in


About us:
Established in 1993, CareEdge Ratings is one of the leading credit rating agencies in India. Registered under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India, it has been acknowledged as an External Credit Assessment Institution by the Reserve Bank of India.
With an equitable position in the Indian capital market, CareEdge Ratings provides a wide array of credit rating services that help
corporates raise capital and enable investors to make informed decisions. With an established track record of rating companies
over almost three decades, CareEdge Ratings follows a robust and transparent rating process that leverages its domain and
analytical expertise, backed by the methodologies congruent with the international best practices. CareEdge Ratings has played
a pivotal role in developing bank debt and capital market instruments, including commercial papers, corporate bonds and
debentures, and structured credit. For more information: www.careratings.com

Disclaimer:
This disclaimer pertains to the ratings issued and content published by CARE Ratings Limited (“CareEdge Ratings”). Ratings are opinions on the likelihood of timely
payment of the obligations under the rated instrument and are not recommendations to sanction, renew, disburse, or recall the concerned bank facilities or to buy,
sell, or hold any security. Any opinions expressed herein are in good faith and are subject to change without notice. The rating reflects the opinions as on the date of
the rating. A rating does not convey suitability or price for the investor. The rating agency does not conduct an audit on the rated entity or an independent verification
of any information it receives and/or relies on for the rating exercise. CareEdge Ratings has based its ratings/outlook on the information obtained from reliable and
credible sources. CareEdge Ratings does not, however, guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of any information and is not responsible for any errors
or omissions and the results obtained from the use of such information. The users of the rating should rely on their own judgment and may take professional advice
while using the rating in any way. CareEdge Ratings shall not be liable for any losses that user may incur or any financial liability whatsoever to the user of the rating.
The use or access of the rating does not create a client relationship between CareEdge Ratings and the user.

CAREEDGE RATINGS DISCLAIMS WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHER WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAWS, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, ERROR-FREE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, NON-INTERRUPTION,
SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR INTENDED USAGE.

Most entities whose bank facilities/instruments are rated by CareEdge Ratings have paid a credit rating fee, based on the amount and type of bank facilities/instruments.
CareEdge Ratings or its subsidiaries/associates may also be involved with other commercial transactions with the entity. CareEdge Ratings does not act as a fiduciary
by providing the rating. The ratings are intended for use only within the jurisdiction of India. The ratings of CareEdge Ratings do not factor in any rating-related trigger
clauses as per the terms of the facilities/instruments, which may involve acceleration of payments in case of rating downgrades. However, if any such clauses are
introduced and triggered, the ratings may see volatility and sharp downgrades. CareEdge Ratings has established policies and procedures as required under applicable
laws and regulations which are available on its website.

Privacy Policy applies. For Privacy Policy please refer to https://www.careratings.com/privacy_policy

© 2026, CARE Ratings Limited. All Rights Reserved.
This content is being published for the purpose of dissemination of information required as per applicable law and regulations and CARE Ratings Limited holds exclusive
copyright over the same. Any reproduction, retransmission, modification, derivative works or use or reference to the contents, in whole, in part or in any form, is
prohibited except with prior express written consent from CARE Ratings Limited.


                                          For detailed Rating Report and subscription information,
                                                      please visit www.careratings.com



          6                                                                                                                                     CARE Ratings Ltd.
