                              BEFORE THE ADJUDICATING OFFICER
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA
                  [ADJUDICATION ORDER NO. Order/JS/DP/2026-27/32428]
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UNDER SECTION 23-I OF SECURITIES CONTRACTS (REGULATION) ACT, 1956
READ WITH RULE 5 OF SECURITIES CONTRACTS (REGULATION) (PROCEDURE
FOR HOLDING INQUIRY AND IMPOSING PENALTIES BY ADJUDICATING
OFFICERS), RULES, 2005

                                                                                                  In respect of:

                                                                           New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                  (PAN No. AAACN0865D)

                          in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BACKGROUND OF THE CASE
1. New Delhi Television Limited (hereinafter referred to as “NDTV/ Noticee”) is a
    company listed on the BSE Limited (hereinafter referred to as “BSE”) and National
    Stock Exchange of India Limited (hereinafter referred to as “NSE”) (hereinafter BSE
    and NSE together referred as “Stock Exchanges”). Securities and Exchange Board
    of India (hereinafter referred to as “SEBI”) vide order dated June 26, 2018 (hereinafter
    referred to as “2018 SEBI Order”), inter alia, concluded that Vishvapradhan
    Commercial Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as “VCPL”) had indirectly acquired
    control in NDTV by entering into a loan agreement and the call option agreement on
    July 21, 2009 (hereinafter referred to as “2009 Loan Agreement”), with the promoters
    of NDTV and therefore, directed VCPL to make public announcement to acquire
    shares of NDTV in accordance with the provisions of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of
    Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as “Takeover
    Regulations”), within a period of 45 days from the date of the said order.

2. Subsequent to above order, Noticee vide its letter dated June 27, 2018 made a
    disclosure to the Stock Exchanges stating that “… NDTV reconfirms that Dr. Prannoy
    Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy individually and through their company, i.e., RRPR Holding


                       Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                                      Page 1 of 21
   Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as “RRPR”) continue to own and hold 61.45%
   of the total paid up share capital of NDTV and control NDTV…”. Further, vide letter
   dated July 02, 2018, the Noticee had made another disclosure to BSE reiterating
   above stand and further stated that, “…we confirm that in our view there was nothing
   in the knowledge of NDTV which was not available in public domain and which may
   have an impact on the share price of NDTV…”

3. Thereafter, SEBI received a representation dated July 30, 2018 from Dinkar Singh
   (Advocate) on behalf of Quantum Securities Pvt. Ltd., a shareholder of NDTV
   (hereinafter referred to as ‘complainant’), alleging violations of various securities laws
   by the promoters of NDTV. In view of the chronology of issues stated in the
   representation by the complainant, SEBI carried out an investigation for the period
   from October 14, 2008 to September 30, 2010 to ascertain possible violations of SEBI
   (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter
   referred to as “LODR Regulations”).

4. Based on the findings of the investigation, SEBI initiated adjudication proceedings
   against Noticee under section 23E of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956
   (hereinafter referred as “SCRA”) for the alleged violation of regulation 30(1), 30(3),
   30(4) and 30(6) read with clause 8 of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of LODR
   Regulations and clause 8 of Para B of Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular No.
   CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated September 09, 2015.


   APPOINTMENT OF ADJUDICATING OFFICER

5. SEBI had appointed an Adjudicating Officer (hereinafter referred to as “AO”) in the
   matter vide communique dated January 13, 2020. Pursuant to reallocation of cases,
   vide communique dated April 21, 2025, SEBI appointed the undersigned as AO under
   section 23 I of the SCRA read with rule 3 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation)
   (Procedure for Holding Inquiry and Imposing Penalties) Rules, 2005 (hereinafter




                 Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                    Page 2 of 21
   referred to as the “Rules”) to inquire into and adjudge the aforesaid violations under
   section 23E of SCRA.

   SHOW CAUSE NOTICE, REPLY AND HEARING


6. A Show Cause Notice No. EAD-2/AP/VS/2930/2020 dated January 22, 2020
   (hereinafter referred to as “SCN”) was issued to the Noticee to show cause as to why
   an inquiry should not be initiated against it and penalty, if any, should not be imposed
   upon it under the provisions of section 23E of SCRA, for violation of regulation 30(1),
   30(3), 30(4) and 30(6) read with clause 8 of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of LODR
   Regulations and clause 8 of Para B of Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular
   CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated September 09, 2015, alleged to have been committed
   by the Noticee.

7. The SCN was duly served upon the Noticee by Speed Post Acknowledgement Due.
   Vide letter dated February 07, 2020, the Noticee submitted that DMD Advocates will
   be its authorized representative (AR) in the instant proceedings. The AR vide its letter
   dated February 07, 2020 submitted its preliminary response to the SCN and stated
   that “…In view of VCPL’s challenge in respect of the SEBI order dated 26 June 2018,
   bearing Appeal bearing no. 293 of 2018, pending before the Hon’ble Securities
   Appellate Tribunal, scheduled for final hearing on 24 February 2020, it is respectfully
   submitted that since the matter is sub judice, the captioned Show Cause Notice is
   premature, and thus, liable to be withdrawn and/or revoked in limine, and, in any event,
   the Show cause Notice is liable to be kept in abeyance, pending the outcome of
   Appeal No.293 of 2018…”

8. However, the request of the AR was not acceded to and in the interest of natural
   justice and in terms of rule 4(3) of the Rules an opportunity of personal hearing was
   granted to the Noticee on March 20, 2020 vide notice dated March 05, 2020. The AR
   vide its letter dated March 13, 2020 requested for inspection of relied upon documents
   including internal noting, etc. Vide email dated March 18, 2020, the AR was informed


                 Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                    Page 3 of 21
   about the adjournment of the scheduled hearing due to ongoing pandemic situation.
   Thereafter, on August 03, 2020 an opportunity of personal hearing was granted to the
   Noticee on August 11, 2020 and it was further adjourned to September 11, 2020. The
   details of the hearing before erstwhile AO is tabulated below:
         Date of
                        Brief Submissions by the ARs                    Brief Records of Hearing
         Hearing
      March      20, AR reiterated its request for                 Inspection request rejected referring
      2020           inspection of all the documents and/          to earlier communications made in
                     or material collected by the SEBI             this regard by erstwhile AO. Hearing
                     preceding/        during/     following       adjourned due to ongoing pandemic.
                     investigations, including but not             (E-mail dated March 18, 2020)
                     limited to internal file notings,
                     orders/directions and statements
                     recorded. (Letter dated March 13,
                     2020)
      August     11, AR submitted that the matter was not          Hearing Adjourned for month of
      2020           suitable for virtual hearing, owing to        September.
                     complex legal issues and thus,
                     requested for adjournment of hearing
                     due to lockdown environment in State
                     of Maharashtra until August 31, 2020.
                     (E-mail dated August 10, 2020)
      September 11, AR submitted that the matter was not           Request of inspection of document
      2020           suitable for virtual hearing, owing to        rejected. There was no restriction on
                     complex legal issues and thus,                movement as per the Government of
                     requested for adjournment of hearing          Maharashtra         order         No.
                     due to lockdown environment in State          DMU/2020/CR. 92/DisM-1 dated
                     of Maharashtra until September 30,            August 31, 2020 opportunity of
                     2020.     Reiterated      request    for      hearing was given to the Noticee on
                     inspection of records. (E-mail dated          September 17, 2020 at 4 PM
                     September 10, 2020)                           onwards.
      October    23, The matter could not reach to hearing         The hearing was adjourned to
      2020           due to arguments in another matter of         October 27, 2020 to begin at 11 AM.
                     NDTV pursuant to SCN dated August
                     20, 2020, wherein the same AR was
                     appearing.
      October    27, The AR made oral submissions at               The hearing was adjourned          to
      2020           length and requested for the                  November 05, 2020 at 11 AM.
                     adjournment.
      November 05, The AR made oral submissions at                 Hearing was concluded. The request
      2020           length and requested that a written           of AR was considered and time to file
                     submissions.                                  written submissions by November 23,
                                                                   2020 was granted.


9. The allegations made in the SCN are summarised as under:


                  Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                       Page 4 of 21
a)   NDTV is a company listed on the BSE and NSE. SEBI, vide order dated June 26, 2018,
     inter alia, concluded that VCPL had indirectly acquired control in NDTV, by entering into
     a loan agreement and the call option agreement on July 21, 2009 with the promoters of
     NDTV and thereafter, directed VCPL to make public announcement to acquire shares of
     NDTV in accordance with the provisions of Takeovers Regulations within a period of 45
     days from the date of the said order.

b)   Subsequent to above order, the Noticee vide its letter dated June 27, 2018 made a
     disclosure to the stock exchanges stating that “… NDTV reconfirms that Dr. Prannoy Roy
     and Mrs. Radhika Roy individually and through their company, i.e., RRPR Holding Private
     Limited continue to own and hold 61.45% of the total paid up share capital of NDTV and
     control NDTV…”. Further, vide letter dated July 02, 2018, the Noticee made another
     disclosure to BSE reiterating above submission and, inter alia, also submitted that, “…we
     confirm that in our view there was nothing in the knowledge of NDTV which was not
     available in public domain and which may have an impact on the share price of NDTV…”

c)   Thereafter, SEBI received a representation dated July 30, 2018 by Dinkar Singh
     (Advocate) on behalf of Quantum Securities Pvt. Ltd., a shareholder of NDTV (hereinafter
     referred to as ‘complainant’), alleging violations of various securities laws by the
     promoters of NDTV. In view of the chronology of issues stated in the representation dated
     July 30, 2018 by the complainant, SEBI conducted an investigation for the period from
     October 14, 2008 to September 30, 2010. One of the issue raised by the complainant
     was that “…Under the Order, it is clear that the control of the Company was taken over
     by VCPL and NDTV was mandatorily required to disclose the same to the Stock
     Exchanges, acquisitions of Company being a material event under clause 36 of the
     Listing Agreement. However, neither the Promoters nor the Company has disclosed the
     same to the Stock Exchanges. In fact, they continue to hide the fact as stated in the
     disclosure made on July 02, 2018…”

d)   During the investigation by SEBI, comments of the Noticee were sought in the matter and
     the Noticee vide its letter dated August 19, 2019 submitted that it was neither a party to
     the proceedings in the matter of VCPL nor was aware that SEBI proceedings were
     ongoing in the matter against VCPL in relation to the Noticee and also that none of its
     promoters were party to the proceedings. The Noticee further submitted that subsequent
     to coming across SEBI’s order dated June 26, 2018, through news reports, it had made
     clarification /disclosures to stock exchanges on June 29, 2018.

e)   The explanation of the Noticee was not found satisfactory in terms of clause 36 of Listing
     Agreement (applicable at the time of transaction) by the Investigating Authority. It was
     observed that a listed entity is required to disclose any information having bearing on the
     operation/performance of the company to the stock exchanges. In view of the same,
     NDTV ought to have disclosed the change in control in the listed entity to the stock
     exchange under clause 36 of the Listing Agreement.

f)   In view of the above, it was alleged that by not disclosing the above fact to the stock
     exchanges, the Noticee had violated the provisions of regulation 30(1), 30(3), 30(4) and
     30(6) read with clause 8 of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations and
     clause 8 of Para B of Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated
     September 09, 2015.

                Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                   Page 5 of 21
10. The Noticee, inter alia, made following submissions in its reply dated November 04, 2020 and
   post hearing submissions dated November 23, 2020 as under:
   a) In order to sustain a Show Cause Notice premised on violation or contravention of a
       regulatory obligation, it is imperative that direct nexus between the alleged breach and
       the legal obligation must be distinctly apparent, on plain reading.
   b) It is not in dispute that the Noticee is neither affiliated with nor bears risk or responsibility
       for the business or activities of VCPL, and as such, the law does not impose any
       obligation to discharge reporting requirements concerning litigation or adjudication to
       which VCPL may be party.
   c) At best, a lender-borrower relationship exists between VCPL and the Promoter Group,
       which did not give rise to any regulatory obligation for the Noticee.
   d) The order dated June 26, 2018 did not issue directions to the Noticee that would result in
       any reporting obligations whatsoever.
   e) The Noticee has neither any right nor nexus whatsoever in or to VCPL, and as such there
       is no requirement, in law, for the Noticee to make disclosure to the stock exchanges of
       orders made against third parties, based on an application of the legal principles of
       corporate separateness.
   f) The subject order dated June 26, 2018 passed by SEBI against VCPL has not been
       served by SEBI upon the Noticee; no reporting obligation can attach in respect of litigation
       to which the Noticee is not joined as party.
   g) The Noticee has no role or responsibility whatsoever owed to VCPL in relation to the loan
       arrangements between VCPL and promoters of the Noticee.
   h) The Noticee has made diligent efforts to, but remains unable to ascertain any form of
       participation in the SEBI adjudication proceedings against VCPL in any form or manner
       whatsoever, including of any statement from officer or director of the Noticee recorded by
       SEBI in the course of proceedings conducted by SEBI against VCPL, and in the absence
       of inspection granted by the SEBI, is unable to determine the correct position in this
       regard. The Noticee verily believes that at no stage of the proceedings against or by
       VCPL has the SEBI called upon the Noticee to partake therein.
   i) The Noticee is not aware of any purported ‘change of control’ absent manifestation
       thereof whatsoever, and by way of abundant caution, purely in response to false market
       rumours, had duly verified from, and been assured by the Promoters, that there is no
       ‘change of control’ in relation to Promoter Group shareholding; which stands duly
       recorded in minutes of a board meeting of the Noticee, held on August 5, 2015.
   j) In any event, on June 27, 2018 (Annexure B to the SCN), i.e., within 24 hours of the order
       dated June 26, 2018 made against VCPL, in response to "news item published in various
       electronic and print media on June 26-27, 2018" the Noticee issued a clarification to the
       stock exchanges that the Promoters continued to "own and hold 61.45% of the total paid
       up share capital of NDTV, and control NDTV."
   k) Again, on July 2, 2018, in response to the Surveillance Section of the BSE, the Noticee
       confirmed “In our view there has been no change in control…”
   l) It is not the case set forth in the SCN that the Noticee had knowledge of, or bears risk or
       responsibility for the business and activities of VCPL, including but not limited to any
       obligation to discharge reporting requirements concerning any litigation or adjudication to
       which VCPL may be party, since VCPL is neither a promoter/shareholder of the Noticee,
       nor a subsidiary or associate of the Noticee.



                   Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                          Page 6 of 21
m) The framework for disclosure of events or information, set down under regulation 30 of
   the LODR Regulations, has no application, and the SEBI Circular, as a necessary
   corollary can have no relevance.
n) Regulation 30(1) stipulates that every listed entity shall make disclosures of events or
   information, which in the opinion of the board of directors of the listed company, is
   considered material.
o) Regulation 30(2) stipulates events specified in Para A to Part A of Schedule III are
   deemed to be material events and that a listed entity shall make disclosure of such
   events.
p) Regulation 30(3) stipulates that a listed entity shall make disclosure of events specified
   in Para B to Part A of Schedule III, based on application of the guidelines for materiality,
   as specified in sub-regulation (4), which further stipulates that the listed entity shall
   consider the following criterion for determination of materiality of events / information, viz.:
   (a) the omission of an event or information, which is likely to result in discontinuity or
   alteration of event or information already available publicly; or (b) the omission of an event
   or information is likely to result in significant market reaction if the said omission came to
   light at a later date; or (c) in cases where (a) and (b) are not applicable, an event or
   information may be treated as being material if in the opinion of the board of directors of
   listed entity, the event or information is considered material.
q) Further, regulation 30(6) of the LODR Regulations relates to mandatory disclosures of
   material events under regulation 30(2) read with Para A to Part A of Schedule III and in
   circumstances of not having been alleged under the SCN, have no application
   whatsoever to disclosures liable to be made after determination of materiality by a listed
   entity under regulation 30(3), 30(4) read with Para B to Part A of Schedule III.
r) Circular dated September 9, 2015 issued by the SEBI, in relation to 'Continuous
   Disclosure Requirements for Listed Entities - regulation 30 of Securities and Exchange
   Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015',
   which at 'Annexure - 1' indicates the details that need to be provided while disclosing the
   events given inter alia in Para B of Schedule III, which specifically covers clause 8 of Para
   B, as follows:

    "8. Litigation(s) / dispute(s) / regulatory action(s) with impact: The listed entity shall notify
    the stock exchange(s) upon it or its key management personnel or its promoter or ultimate
    person in control becoming party to any litigation, assessment, adjudication, arbitration
    or dispute in conciliation proceedings or upon institution of any litigation, assessment,
    adjudication, arbitration or dispute including any adinterim or interim orders passed
    against or in favour of the listed entity, the outcome of which can reasonably be expected
    to have an impact.
     8.1.At the time of becoming the party:
        a) brief details of litigation viz. name(s) of the opposing party, court/ tribunal/agency
             where litigation is filed, brief details of dispute/litigation;
        b) expected financial implications, if any, due to compensation, penalty etc;
        c) quantum of claims, if any;
    8.2. Regularly till the litigation is concluded or dispute is resolved:
        a) the details of any change in the status and / or any development in relation to such
             proceedings;
        b) in the case of litigation against key management personnel or its promoter or
             ultimate person in control, regularly provide details of any change in the status
             and / or any development in relation to such proceedings;

                Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                        Page 7 of 21
              c) in the event of settlement of the proceedings, details of such settlement including
                 - terms of the settlement, compensation/penalty paid (if any) and impact of such
                 settlement on the financial position of the listed entity."

      s)   The Circular, therefore, requires the following four categories of litigations having a
           bearing on a listed entity, becoming liable to disclosure:
               (1) The listed entity itself;
               (2) Key management personnel of the listed entity;
               (3) Promoter of the listed entity; or
               (4) Ultimate person in control of the listed entity.
      t)   The VCPL order does not fulfil any of these four criterion.
      u)   The Noticee without prejudice to its contention that no disclosure, either under clause 36
           of the Equity Listing Agreement or under regulation 30 of the LODR Regulations read
           with SEBI Circular dated September 9, 2015, was liable to be made, by way of abundant
           caution, and purely to safeguard its position, in respect of matters contained in the order
           dated June 26, 2018, notified clarificatory disclosures to the Stock Exchanges on June
           27, 2018 and further on June 29, 2018.
      v)   Upon receipt of information through print and electronic media reports, as to the issuance
           of the order dated June 26, 2018, the Noticee promptly verified the correct position from
           the Promoters, and immediately notified the stock exchanges on June 27, 2018, through
           issuance of clarificatory disclosures to the effect that: “…NDTV reconfirms that Dr.
           Prannoy Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy individually and through their company, i.e., RRPR
           Holding Private Limited continue to own 61.45% of the total paid up share capital of
           NDTV, and control NDTV….”.

11. The matter was heard by the first AO, however the first AO was transferred before
      passing of order. Since then due to reallocation of cases multiple times, the matter
      has changed hands, before it was allocated to the undersigned.

12. Pursuant to reallocation of the case to the undersigned, vide hearing notice dated
      June 26, 2025, Noticee was granted another opportunity of hearing. The ARs of the
      Noticee, viz., Ms. Fereshte Sethna, Advocate, DMD Advocates assisted by Mr.
      Abhishek Tilak and Mr. Nikhil Guliani, Advocate DMD Advocates appeared for the
      hearing on July 04, 2025 and reiterated the submissions made vide replies dated
      December 03, 2020 and July 04, 2025. It is also noted that appeal has been filed
      before Hon’ble Supreme Court against Hon’ble SAT order dated July 21,2022.

13. Vide email dated July 04, 2025, Noticee filed additional submissions, inter alia, stating
      as follows:
 a)        Vide order dated July 21, 2022 the Hon’ble SAT, while disposing SAT Appeals No. 293
           of 2018, 294 to 296 of 2019 and 77 to 80 of 2019 (“SAT Order”), held that VCPL had not
           acquired any direct or indirect control of NDTV.

                      Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                         Page 8 of 21
b)   SEBI has challenged the SAT order dated July 21, 2022 passed in the hands of VCPL
     before the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Civil Appeal No. 7312 of 2022. Materially, the
     Hon’ble Supreme Court has not stayed the operation, effect and implementation of the
     SAT order dated July 21, 2022.
c)   During the pendency of the proceedings before the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the
     erstwhile promoters of NDTV have sold and transferred their shareholding to RRPR
     Holding Private Limited (a subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Limited), which was duly
     disclosed to the stock exchanges on December 23, 2022 and December 30, 2022
     respectively. This transaction conclusively establishes that the right, title and interest in
     the shareholding of the erstwhile promoters of NDTV, at all material times, remained
     with the erstwhile promoters of NDTV.
d)   Accordingly, allegations in the SCN that failure on the part of Noticee, to disclose an
     order dated June 26, 2018 passed by SEBI in the case of VCPL to the stock exchanges,
     is a violation of regulation 30(1), 30(3), 30(4) and 30 (6) read with clause 8 of Para B to
     Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations and clause 8 of Para B of Annexure - I to
     SEBI Circular bearing no. CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated September 9, 2015, read with
     clause 36 of the Equity Listing Agreement, and has rendered NDTV liable to penalty
     under section 23 E of SCRA cannot be sustained in light of the observations in SAT
     order dated July 21, 2022.
e)   The order dated June 26, 2018 passed in the hands of VCPL did not issue directions to
     the Noticee that would result in any reporting obligations whatsoever.
f)   Upon receipt of information through print and electronic media reports, as to the issuance
     of the SEBI order dated June 26, 2018 in the hands of VCPL, the Noticee promptly
     verified the correct position from the erstwhile promoters, and immediately notified the
     stock exchanges on June 27, 2018, through issuance of clarificatory disclosures to the
     effect that: “…NDTV reconfirms that Dr. Prannoy Roy and Mrs. Radhika Roy
     individually and through their company, i.e., RRPR Holding Private Limited continue to
     own 61.45% of the total paid up share capital of NDTV, and control NDTV….”. No further
     action by the Noticee was required.
g)   In its notification of June 27, 2018, within barely 24 hours of the SEBI order dated June
     26, 2018 in the hands of VCPL, it was recorded that this notification was in response to
     “news item published in various electronic and print media on June 26-27 2018” that the
     erstwhile promoters continued to “own and hold 61.45% of the total paid up share capital
     of NDTV, and control NDTV.”
h)   The prompt action of June 27, 2018 was followed by further disclosure of June 29,
     2018, including a statement from the erstwhile promoters of NDTV, which specifically
     asserted that the allegation that control of NDTV was acquired by VCPL through the loan
     transactions was factually incorrect and that shares of NDTV comprising 61.45% were
     not transferred to VCPL and that the erstwhile Promoters continued to exercise voting
     rights, and consequently retained control in NDTV, which was not ceded either directly
     or indirectly, as alleged.
i)   It is not in dispute that the Noticee is neither affiliated with, nor bears risk or responsibility
     for the business or activities of VCPL, and as such, the law does not impose any
     obligation to discharge reporting requirements concerning litigation or adjudication to
     which VCPL may be party.
j)   At best, a lender-borrower relationship existed between VCPL and the Promoter Group,
     which did not give rise to any regulatory obligation for the Noticee, which in case has
     now been put to rest vide SAT order dated July 21, 2022.



                 Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                          Page 9 of 21
k)   The framework for disclosure of events or information, set down under regulation 30 of
     the LODR Regulations, has no application to the facts in this SCN, and the SEBI Circular,
     as a necessary corollary can have no relevance.
l)   The overbroad allegations in the SCN fail to narrow down how the order dated June 26,
     2018 passed in the hands of VCPL was liable to disclosure under the LODR Regulations,
     including Part A of Schedule III.
m)   Regulation 30(1) stipulates every listed entity shall make disclosures of events or
     information, which in the opinion of the board of directors of the listed company, is
     considered material.
n)   As to materiality, the action of the Noticee on June 29, 2018 (copy appended to the SCN)
     bears utmost relevance.
o)   Regulation 30(2) stipulates events specified in Para A to Part A of Schedule III are
     deemed material events and that a listed entity shall make disclosure of such events.
p)   The present case does not fall within regulation 30(2) or Para A to Part A of Schedule
     III. Regulation 30 (3) stipulates that a listed entity shall make disclosure of events
     specified in Para B to Part A of Schedule III, based on application of the guidelines for
     materiality, as specified in sub-regulation (4), which further stipulates that the listed entity
     shall consider the following criterion for determination of materiality of events /
     information, viz.: (a) the omission of an event or information, which is likely to result in
     discontinuity or alteration of event or information already available publicly; or (b) the
     omission of an event or information is likely to result in significant market reaction if the
     said omission came to light at a later date; or (c) in cases where (a) and (b) are not
     applicable, an event or information may be treated as being material if in the opinion of
     the board of directors of listed entity, the event or information is considered material.
q)    Further, regulation 30(6) of the LODR Regulations relates to mandatory disclosures of
     material events under regulation 30(2) read with Para A to Part A of Schedule III and no
     allegation is made in the SCN as to mandatory disclosure.
r)    Clause 8 of Para B to Part A of Schedule III reads as follows: “Litigation(s) / dispute(s)
     / regulatory action(s) with impact”. In the absence of ‘change of control’, an erroneous
     conclusion of a regulatory authority, is not one bearing ‘impact’.
s)   Circular dated September 9, 2015 issued by the SEBI, in relation to ‘Continuous
     Disclosure Requirements for Listed Entities – Regulation 30 of LODR Regulations,
     indicates the details that need to be provided while disclosing the events given, inter alia,
     in Para B of Schedule III, which specifically covers clause 8 of Para B, as follows:
        “8. Litigation(s) / dispute(s) / regulatory action(s) with impact: The listed entity
        shall notify the stock exchange(s) upon it or its key management personnel or its
        promoter or ultimate person in control becoming party to any litigation,
        assessment, adjudication, arbitration or dispute in conciliation proceedings or
        upon institution of any litigation, assessment, adjudication, arbitration or dispute
        including any ad-interim or interim orders passed against or in favour of the listed
        entity, the outcome of which can reasonably be expected to have an impact.
        8.1. At the time of becoming the party:
        a) brief details of litigation viz. name(s) of the opposing party, court/ tribunal/agency
        where litigation is filed, brief details of dispute/litigation;
        b) expected financial implications, if any, due to compensation, penalty etc;
        c) quantum of claims, if any;
        8.2. Regularly till the litigation is concluded or dispute is resolved:




                Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                       Page 10 of 21
        a) the details of any change in the status and / or any development in relation to
        such proceedings;
        b) in the case of litigation against key management personnel or its promoter or
        ultimate person in control, regularly provide details of any change in the status and /
        or any development in relation to such proceedings;
        c) in the event of settlement of the proceedings, details of such settlement including
        - terms of the settlement, compensation/penalty paid (if any) and impact of such
        settlement on the financial position of the listed entity.”

t)    The Circular, therefore, requires the following four categories of litigations having a
      bearing on a listed entity, becoming liable to disclosure:
                  (1) The listed entity itself;
                  (2) Key management personnel of the listed entity;
                  (3) Promoter of the listed entity; or
                  (4) Ultimate person in control of the listed entity.

u)    The order dated June 26, 2018 in the hands of VCPL does not fulfil any of these four
      criteria, since it is neither the listed entity nor promoter nor person in control.
v)    The Circular construed with regulation 30(3) read with 30(4) and under clause 8 of Para
      B to Part A of Schedule III, renders apparent that the VCPL order did not qualify for
      disclosure by the Noticee.
w)    The SCN erroneously proceeds on the footing that the Noticee allegedly violated clause
      36 of the Equity Listing Agreement, and ought to have disclosed the purported ‘change
      in control’ to the stock exchanges.
x)    Significant by its absence is the identification of a date when such alleged ‘change in
      control’ occurred. It was not open to the Noticee to determine such date on its own, and
      none was available in the order dated June 26, 2018 in the hands of VCPL of the SEBI.
y)    Clause 36(5) of the Equity Listing Agreement, purportedly alleged to have been violated
      by the Noticee, reads thus:
          “(5) Litigation/dispute with a material impact
          The Company will promptly after the event inform the Exchange of the developments
          with respect to any dispute in conciliation proceedings, litigation, assessment,
          adjudication or arbitration to which it is a party or the outcome of which can
          reasonably be expected to have a material impact on its present or future operations
          or its profitability or financials.”
z)    The language “or the outcome of which can reasonably be expected to have a material
      impact” must necessarily pertain to governmental policy issues concerning the business
      of a listed company and has no application to the facts in hand.
aa)   The SCN relies on false allegations made by QSPL vide complaint dated July 30, 2018,
      an extract whereof has been relied upon, purportedly reporting control of NDTV taken
      over by VCPL, to conclude a materiality event under clause 36 of the Equity Listing
      Agreement.
bb)   The complaint falsely asserts that the Noticee has hidden facts as to alleged ‘change in
      control’ in the letter dated July 2, 2018 issued to the stock exchanges.
cc)   The Noticee vide its letter dated July 2, 2018 has unequivocally stated that neither NDTV
      nor its erstwhile promoters were parties to the adjudication proceedings and that there
      was no ‘change in control’ of NDTV, and that its erstwhile promoters, viz., Dr. Prannoy
      Roy, Mrs. Radhika Roy individually and through their Company, i.e., RRPR Holding


                 Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                    Page 11 of 21
       Private Limited owned and continue to own and control 61.45% of the total paid up share
       capital of NDTV, and as such there is no change of control of NDTV.
 dd)   The said letter dated July 2, 2018 further stated that there was nothing within the
       knowledge of NDTV not available in public domain, which would have an impact on the
       share price of NDTV, and therefore it was deemed by the board of directors that the
       order dated June 26, 2018 passed in the hands of VCPL and the finding thereunder had
       no materiality to NDTV, which was clarified vide disclosures issued on June 27, 2018 to
       the stock exchanges.
 ee)   The Noticee submitted that the intent and purport of the letter dated July 2, 2018
       addressed to the stock exchanges, be read, for its plain meaning, rather than to become
       the basis for false and frivolous complaints aimed to settle personal scores and vendetta
       wreaked by the persons in control of QSPL upon the promoters of NDTV.
 ff)   The Noticee, upon receipt of a letter dated August 13, 2019 from the SEBI, after lapse
       of more than a year since the said order dated June 26, 2018 was published, submitted
       its response vide letter dated August 19, 2019, duly relaying steps taken to safeguard
       misinformation operating in the public domain vis-à-vis NDTV as follows:
        (i)   issuance of clarificatory disclosures notifying stock exchanges that there was no
              ‘change in control’ of NDTV and that its erstwhile promoters, viz., Dr. Prannoy
              Roy, Mrs. Radhika Roy individually and through their Company, i.e.,, RRPR
              Holding Private Limited continue to own and control 61.45% of the total paid up
              share capital of NDTV, and thus control NDTV;
        (ii) neither NDTV nor its erstwhile promoters were a party to the adjudication
              proceedings, initiated against VCPL;
        (iii) prompt disclosures were made by way of abundant caution by NDTV, upon
              receipt of information as to the order dated June 26, 2018 via. print and electronic
              media; and
        (iv) further clarificatory disclosures were issued on June 29, 2018, after obtaining a
              copy of the order dated June 26, 2018 passed in the hands of VCPL.
 gg)   Therefore, notwithstanding no requirement on the part of the Noticee to disclose the
       order dated June 26, 2018 passed in the hands of VCPL, the Noticee adopted
       reasonable bona fide steps to notify the non-existence of materiality upon NDTV vis-à-
       vis the order dated June 26, 2018 passed in the hands of VCPL, including through
       issuance of clarificatory disclosures to the stock exchanges, in manner whereby mis-
       information as to alleged ‘change in control’ of NDTV would be quelled.


CONSIDERATION OF ISSUES AND FINDINGS


14. The issues that arise for consideration in the instant matter are:
       Issue No. I Whether the Noticee failed to disclose the 2018 SEBI Order passed
                   against VCPL and thereby violated regulation 30(1), 30(3), 30(4) and
                   30(6) read with clause 8 of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of LODR
                   Regulations and clause 8 of Para B of Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular
                   No. CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated September 09, 2015?


                  Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                     Page 12 of 21
       Issue No. II Whether the failure, on the part of the Noticee would attract
                      monetary penalty under section 23E of SCRA?
       Issue No. III If yes, what would be the monetary penalty that can be imposed upon
                     the Noticee taking into consideration the factors stipulated in section
                     23J of SCRA?


15. Before proceeding further, I would like to refer to the relevant provisions of the LODR
   Regulations and the circular thereof:
     LODR Regulations
    “Disclosure of events or information.
    30.(1) Every listed entity shall make disclosures of any events or information which, in the
    opinion of the board of directors of the listed company, is material.
    …
    (3) The listed entity shall make disclosure of events specified in Para B of Part A of Schedule
    III, based on application of the guidelines for materiality, as specified in sub-regulation (4).
    (4) (i) The listed entity shall consider the following criteria for determination of materiality of
    events/ information:
         (a) the omission of an event or information, which is likely to result in discontinuity or
        alteration of event or information already available publicly; or
         (b) the omission of an event or information is likely to result in significant market reaction
        if the said omission came to light at a later date;
        (c) In case where the criteria specified in sub-clauses (a) and (b) are not applicable, an
        event/information may be treated as being material if in the opinion of the board of directors
        of listed entity, the event / information is considered material.
    (ii) The listed entity shall frame a policy for determination of materiality, based on criteria
    specified in this sub-regulation, duly approved by its board of directors, which shall be
    disclosed on its website.
    …
    6) The listed entity shall first disclose to stock exchange(s) of all events, as specified in Part
    A of Schedule III, or information as soon as reasonably possible and not later than twenty
    four hours from the occurrence of event or information: Provided that in case the disclosure
    is made after twenty four hours of occurrence of the event or information, the listed entity
    shall, along with such disclosures provide explanation for delay: Provided further that
    disclosure with respect to events specified in sub-para 4 of Para A of Part A of Schedule III
    shall be made within thirty minutes of the conclusion of the board meeting.”

    Clause 8 of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations

    “8.Litigation(s) / dispute(s) / regulatory action(s) with impact.”

    Clause 8 of Para B of Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated
    September 09, 2015




                   Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                         Page 13 of 21
    “8. Litigation(s) / dispute(s) / regulatory action(s) with impact: The listed entity shall notify
    the stock exchange(s) upon it or its key management personnel or its promoter or ultimate
    person in control becoming party to any litigation, assessment, adjudication, arbitration or
    dispute in conciliation proceedings or upon institution of any litigation, assessment,
    adjudication, arbitration or dispute including any ad-interim or interim orders passed against
    or in favour of the listed entity, the outcome of which can reasonably be expected to have an
    impact.
    8.1. At the time of becoming the party:
    a) brief details of litigation viz. name(s) of the opposing party, court/ tribunal/agency where
    litigation is filed, brief details of dispute/litigation;
    b) expected financial implications, if any, due to compensation, penalty etc;
    c) quantum of claims, if any;
    8.2. Regularly till the litigation is concluded or dispute is resolved:
    a) the details of any change in the status and / or any development in relation to such
    proceedings;
    b) in the case of litigation against key management personnel or its promoter or ultimate
    person in control, regularly provide details of any change in the status and / or any
    development in relation to such proceedings;
    c) in the event of settlement of the proceedings, details of such settlement including - terms
    of the settlement, compensation/penalty paid (if any) and impact of such settlement on the
    financial position of the listed entity.”


 Issue No. I Whether the Noticee failed to disclose the 2018 SEBI Order passed against
          VCPL and thereby violated regulations 30(1), 30(3), 30(4) and 30(6) read with
          clause 8 of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations and clause 8
          of Para B of Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated
          September 09, 2015?

16. It was alleged in the SCN that the Noticee failed to make the necessary disclosure in
   terms of regulations 30(1), 30(3), 30(4) and 30(6) of LODR Regulations read with
   clause 8 of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of the LODR Regulations and clause 8 of
   Para B of Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated September
   09, 2015 of the 2018 SEBI Order passed against VCPL, wherein a conclusion of
   indirect control over the Noticee was established.

17. From the regulatory framework governing the aforesaid disclosures under LODR
   Regulations, it is noted that a listed company’s primary duty is to ensure that the stock
   market operates on the timely dissemination of information. This responsibility is
   rooted in the concept of materiality that any event or piece of information significant

                   Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                       Page 14 of 21
   enough to sway an investor's decision to buy, sell, or hold shares must be disclosed.
   Under regulations 30(1) and 30(6) of LODR Regulations, listed companies are
   required to disclose these material events almost immediately, typically within 24
   hours of them happening, or even as quickly as 30 minutes if the decision was made
   during a Board meeting.

18. This obligation becomes even more specific under clause 8 of Para B of Part A of
   Schedule III, which mandates listed companies to report any major lawsuits, legal
   disputes, or regulatory orders. This rule applies to the listed company, its promoters,
   top executives (Key Managerial Personnel), and the ultimate person in control. In
   order to ensure clarity and uniformity in its implementation, the SEBI Circular of
   September 2015 emphasizes that any government or regulatory action that changes
   who controls the company or how it operates must be reported.

19. In this background, I note that it is an admitted fact that the 2009 Loan Agreement was
   signed between promoters of the Noticee, Dr. Prannoy Roy, Mrs. Radhika Roy, and
   RRPR Holding Pvt. Ltd. and the lending entity, VCPL. It is also not in dispute that
   Noticee was not a party to the said 2009 Loan Agreement.


20. In the 2018 SEBI Order, it was observed that the said 2009 Loan Agreement
   functioned much more than a standard financial arrangement. It was observed that
   through the convertibility and control clauses of the 2009 Loan Agreement, VCPL was
   granted warrants that could be converted into 99.99% of RRPR’s equity at any time.
   Since RRPR held a substantial stake in Noticee, such rights effectively gave VCPL an
   indirect call option (a right) to take over 26% of the total share capital of the Noticee.
   Further, the 2009 Loan Agreement was fortified with powerful restrictive covenants
   conferring veto rights. In this background, the 2018 SEBI Order concluded that the
   cumulative effect of these rights in the 2009 Loan Agreement resulted in a change of
   control in favour of VCPL, even though the individual promoters continued to serve as
   the face of the Noticee. In this context, it was alleged in the SCN that the said 2018
   SEBI Order was a material event and should have been disclosed to the public.

                 Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                    Page 15 of 21
21. It is a fact that the Noticee was neither a party to the proceedings against VCPL which
   ultimately culminated in the abovementioned 2018 SEBI Order nor was officially
   served with the said order.


22. In this background, the Noticee argued that the disclosure framework under regulation
   30 of the LODR and the SEBI Circular dated September 09, 2015 are inapplicable.
   These regulations only require reporting of litigation or orders involving four specific
   categories: the listed entity, its promoters, its key management personnel, or the
   ultimate person in control. Since the order was against VCPL, which was none of
   these, the criteria for a material event were not met. Despite this, the Noticee pointed
   out that it acted with abundant caution by issuing prompt clarifications to the stock
   exchanges within 24 hours of media reports in June 2018, confirming that the original
   promoters still held a 61.45% stake and maintained full control of the Noticee. Further,
   the Noticee highlighted that Hon’ble SAT had ruled that VCPL had not acquired direct
   or indirect control of NDTV vide order dated June 21, 2022. Noticee stated that the
   said SAT order explicitly quashed the 2018 SEBI order, concluding that the 2009 Loan
   Agreement between VCPL and the promoters did not constitute a change of control.
   The Noticee stated that since Hon’ble SAT has already determined that no change of
   control actually occurred, the premise of the SCN that a change of control should have
   been disclosed is legally unsustainable. This is further proven by the fact that the
   original promoters eventually sold their shares to another company in 2022, confirming
   they held the rights and titles to those shares all along. Consequently, the Noticee
   argued that the entire SCN is legally unsustainable as there was no change of control,
   and hence, there could be no failure to disclose such a material event.


23. In this regard, it is noted that the issue whether the 2009 Loan Agreement resulted in
   the change of control in Noticee has been examined by the Hon’ble SAT in its order
   dated July 21, 2022 wherein the 2018 SEBI Order was subject matter of the appeal.
   In the said order, Hon’ble SAT, inter alia, observed the following:


                 Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                    Page 16 of 21
          “36. We have carefully gone through each and every clause of the loan agreements and
          we find that there is a commercial rationale behind the entire arrangement. Admittedly,
          Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy, being promoters of NDTV, required money to pay the loan
          availed from ICICI Bank Limited. Through this agreement, we find that if the share price
          of NDTV exceeds Rs. 214.65 per equity share, then VCPL could exercise any of the
          following option and acquire 26% of the equity shares of NDTV at a fixed price of Rs.
          214.65 per share. The options that could be exercised were the warrant conversion option
          under which 99.99% equity shares of RRPR could be acquired which would result in
          indirect acquisition of 26% of the equity shares of NDTV. The same would also result when
          VCPL exercises the purchase option to purchase all the equity shares of RRPR held by
          Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy at par value for a nominal amount of Rs. 1 lakh. In addition,
          VCPL through its affiliates STPL and SEPL could directly purchase 26% of NDTV at a
          price of Rs. 214.65 by paying a consolidated amount of Rs. 350 crores to RRPR (namely,
          the loan amount) which amount would be utilized by RRPR to repay the loan to VCPL.
          VCPL if interested in the media business of NDTV could acquire 26% equity shares of
          NDTV at Rs. 214.65 per share irrespective of the then prevailing market price. VCPL risk
          was restricted to the loss of interest on the loan given. The contention that since no interest
          was charged on the loan given, it was not a loan but an indirect acquisition is erroneous.
          The bargain in the agreement has to be understood from a commercial point of view. This
          is the upshot of the commercial rationale in the loan agreement which suited all parties
          i.e. VCPL and the promoters of NDTV.
          37. In our opinion, none of the aforesaid arrangement entails an acquisition of shares in
          NDTV, nor controls the management or policy decisions of NDTV. So long as the loan
          remains unpaid, VCPL continues to have the warrant conversion option, the purchase
          option and the call option under the call option agreements. It is a settled position of law
          that when there are options with convertibility, unless such options are exercised, the
          obligation to make an open offer under Regulation 14 is not triggered…. In our opinion,
          the transaction has to be considered from a commercial rationale and has to be interpreted
          in a businesslike manner.
          …56. Thus, upon a careful reading of various clauses in the agreements, we are of the
          opinion, that various clauses are meant to protect the interest of VCPL and the investment
          made by it. The transaction in the agreement is an amalgamation of rights. It is a loan
          transaction with an option to acquire 26% equity shares of NDTV as consideration for the
          provision of the loan. However, the transaction does not justify as being a control
          transaction. The transaction does not acquire direct or indirect control of NDTV. The intent
          and language of the loan agreement and call option agreements read with the SAST
          Regulations makes it clear that there is no direct or indirect control of NDTV by VCPL. The
          transaction structure does not lead to a conclusion that VCPL has acquired direct or
          indirect control over NDTV.” (Emphasis Supplied)

24. It is noted that the above-mentioned order of the Hon’ble SAT has not been stayed by
      the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. While an appeal1 has been admitted by the
      Hon’ble Supreme Court and the parties have been heard on preliminary grounds, the




1
    Civil Appeal No. 7312 of 2022.

                       Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                           Page 17 of 21
      matter remains pending for final judgement sans any stay on the operation or effect
      of the aforesaid SAT order dated July 21, 2022.

25. In this context, it is pertinent to mention that Hon’ble SAT in the matter of Mr. Ratanlal
      Tamakhuwala & Ors. v. SEBI2 avowed the procedural principle regarding the legal
      status of an unstayed order. In the said matter, the Hon’ble SAT explicitly held:
          "… Fact that the appeal against an order passed by this Tribunal is pending before the
          Apex Court cannot be a ground not to follow the decision of this Tribunal. …"

26. Thereafter, Hon’ble SAT reinforced the same view in the matter of Anarcon Resources
      Pvt. Ltd. v. SEBI3. Considering the established position of law, I am of the opinion that
      the mere fact that SEBI has filed an appeal before the Hon’ble Supreme Court cannot
      be a sufficient ground in itself to bypass or ignore the legal mandate emanating from
      the orders of Hon’ble SAT. Consequent the absence of an express stay, the Hon’ble
      SAT orders remains active, authoritative, and binding. As a natural corollary, the
      decision of the Hon’ble SAT that there was no change in control pursuant to the 2009
      Loan Agreement must guide the determination of the instant issue.

27. In light of the aforesaid discussions, I note that the existence of a change in control
      was sine qua non for the disclosure obligation to arise under LODR Regulations in the
      present case. Since Hon’ble SAT determined that VCPL never possessed the rights
      or power to manage or dictate the policies of the Noticee, VCPL cannot be
      retroactively classified as a "ultimate person in control" in terms of LODR Regulations
      read with the SEBI Circular dated September 09, 2015. In this regard, it is pertinent
      to note that the statutory obligation to disclose regulatory actions under LODR
      Regulations read with SEBI Circular dated September 09, 2015 is strictly contingent
      upon the legal status of the parties involved. A listed entity is mandated to notify the
      stock exchanges of significant litigation or regulatory orders only when such actions
      involve the entity itself, its promoters, its Key Management Personnel (KMP), or,
      crucially, the ultimate person in control. The allegation in the SCN rested on the

2
    Appeal No. 249 of 2014, decided on July 1, 2016.
3
    MANU/SB/0276/2016.

                      Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                         Page 18 of 21
   premise that the 2018 SEBI Order established VCPL as the entity in indirect control
   of the Noticee, thereby triggering a mandatory disclosure under LODR Regulations.
   As noted above, Hon’ble SAT subsequently quashed the 2018 SEBI Order and
   explicitly ruled that the 2009 Loan Agreement did not constitute an acquisition of
   control, direct or indirect. Therefore, the very foundation of the disclosure requirement
   has been undermined. Accordingly, I am of the opinion that in the absence of a legally
   recognized change in control, the disclosure mandates of the LODR Regulation read
   with SEBI Circular dated September 09, 2015 does not arise.


28. It is also important to appreciate that a significant shift in views has occurred since the
   2018 SEBI Order, which held that VCPL acquired indirect control of NDTV in 2009 –
   10 and directed a retrospective open offer based on historical pricing and accrued
   interest. Instead, VCPL exercised its warrants in August 2022 in line with the 2009
   Loan Agreement, leading to a prospective open offer in November 2022 at current
   market rates. As the open offer was ultimately executed on a prospective basis rather
   than a retrospective one, the very foundation of the present proceedings has been
   effectively undermined and nullified by these subsequent events. Moreover, the open
   offer made by VCPL along with the persons acting in concert in November 2022 has
   reaffirmed the position that there was no change of control pursuant to the 2009 Loan
   Agreement.
   p
29. Since, the requirement of disclosure of litigation(s)/dispute(s)/regulatory action(s) with
   impact does not arise in the present case as evident from SAT order dated July 21,
   2022 and open offer made by VCPL in November 2022, I am of the opinion that
   Noticee has not violated regulations 30(1), 30(3), 30(4) and 30(6) read with clause 8
   of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of LODR Regulations and clause 8 of Para B of
   Annexure-I to the SEBI Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015 dated September 09,
   2015 which require listed companies to report any major lawsuits, legal disputes, or
   regulatory orders.



                  Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                     Page 19 of 21
    Issue No. II Whether the failure, on the part of the Noticee would attract
             monetary penalty under section 23E of SCRA?
    Issue No. III If yes, what would be the monetary penalty that can be imposed upon the
             Noticee taking into consideration the factors stipulated in section 23J of SCRA?


30. it is noted that the present proceedings have been initiated under section 23E of
      SCRA. In this regard, I note that Hon’ble SAT in the matter of Suzlon Energy Ltd. v.
      SEBI4 had examined whether a failure to disclose material information under the
      LODR Regulations would amount to a breach of "listing conditions" under section 23E
      of SCRA. In the said case, Hon’ble SAT, inter alia, observed that:
          “… One of the requirements in the Listing Agreement which is required to be complied
          with is Clause 36 whereas Section 23E refers to the conditions which are imposed upon
          a Company when it is applying for its shares to be listed on the stock exchange platform.
          Section 23E has to be read along with Rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation)
          Rules, 1957 ('SCRR' for short). Rule 19 of the SCRR provides certain requirements with
          respect to a listing of securities on a recognized stock exchange. Rule 19A provides that
          a Company has to continuously maintain listing requirements. Rule 21 provides conditions
          for delisting of securities. Failure to comply with the listing conditions which are stated in
          Rule 19 would entail a penalty as provided under Section 23E. Thus, in our view violation
          of Clause 36 of the Listing Agreement will attract Section 23A(a) of the SCRA and will not
          attract Section 23E. The AO has made an error. …”


31. I note that SEBI has filed an appeal before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against
      aforesaid order of the Hon’ble SAT. While no stay has been granted by the Hon’ble
      Supreme Court in the said matter, Hon’ble Apex Court, vide Order dated March 13,
      2023, directed that the order of the Hon’ble SAT in the matter of Suzlon Energy Ltd.
      shall not be treated as precedent.


32. However, as the allegation mentioned in the issue no. I has not been established
      against the Noticee, the question of imposing a penalty on the Noticee under section
      23E of SCRA does not survive for consideration. Accordingly, no finding is rendered
      on the issue nos. II and III.




4
    Appeal No. 201 of 2018.

                      Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                          Page 20 of 21
   ORDER


33. In view of my findings noted in the preceding paragraphs, I hereby dispose of the
   adjudication proceedings initiated against the Noticee (New Delhi Television Limited)
   without imposition of any monetary penalty. In terms of the provisions of rule 6 of the
   Rules, a copy of this order is being sent to the Noticee and also to the Securities and
   Exchange Board of India.



                                                                      Digitally signed by
                                                            JAI       JAI SEBASTIAN

                                                            SEBASTIAN Date: 2026.05.29
                                                                      15:51:27 +05'30'

Date : May 29, 2026                                                        JAI SEBASTIAN
Place : Mumbai                                                      ADJUDICATING OFFICER




                 Adjudication Order in the matter of New Delhi Television Limited
                                                                                    Page 21 of 21
