
# (no title)
URL: https://cgwb.gov.in/cgwbpnm/public/uploads/documents/17357169591419696804file.pdf

भारत सरकार
Government of India
जल शक्ति मंत्रालय
Ministry of Jal Shakti,
जल संसाधन, नदी विकास और गंगा संरक्षण विभाग
Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation
केन्द्रीय भूमि जल बोर्ड
Central Ground Water Board
,
National Compilation on
Dynamic Ground Water Resources of India
2024
Scan to download
Faridabad
2024

National Compilation on 
DYNAMIC GROUND WATER RESOURCES OF INDIA, 2024 
Central Ground Water Board 
Department of Water Resources, 
River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation 
Ministry of Jal Shakti
Government of India
Faridabad 
December, 2024 

wel oiled Watt
ad AeAIT

Minister of Jal Shakti
Government of India

MESSAGE

~ Groundwater is the lifeline of India’s water security, playing a pivotal role in sustaining agriculture,
ensuring access to drinking water, and supporting livelihoods across the nation. Effective and
responsible management of groundwater is essential to secure the nation’s food and water needs
for generations to come. The Ministry of Jal Shakti has spearheaded transformative initiatives
such as the Jal Shakti Abhiyan- Jan Bhagidari se Jal Suraksha, and Atal Bhujal Yojana to
prioritize groundwater management and inspire collective action in safeguarding this invaluable
resource.

Groundwater resources vary significantly across states, necessitating a region-specific approach
for sustainable management. Regular assessments of groundwater resources provide the scientific
foundation for informed planning and effective implementation of groundwater-based schemes.
The National Compilation on Dynamic Ground Water Resources of India, 2024,
meticulously prepared by the Central Ground Water Board in collaboration with State
Governments and Union Territories, serves as a comprehensive and actionable guide for
stakeholders across the country.

I am confident that this report will empower states and stakeholders with the data and insights
required to adopt an integrated and sustainable approach to groundwater management on a
national scale. Let us work together to ensure the judicious use and conservation of this critical
resource, securing a water-resilient future for India.

I congratulate the Central Ground Water Board, the Ministry of Jal Shakti, and all State
Governments and Union Territories for their dedication and collaborative efforts in completing this
significant task. Together, let us reaffirm our commitment to protecting and managing India’s
groundwater resources with care, foresight, and responsibility.

Cpe

C R PAATIL

PP c_erfte
‘= siferera
—S—_— oA, Ae
Office : 210, Shram Shakti Bhawan, Rafi Marg, New Delhi-110 001
Tel: No. (011) 23711780, 23714663, 23714200, Fax : (011) 23710804
E-mail : minister-jalshakti@gov.in
