                                                                  32

MANPOWER AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT IN DELHI
POLICE

[Action Taken by the Government on the Observations/Recommendations of
the Public Accounts Committee contained in their 140 th Report (17th Lok
Sabha)]

MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS

PUBLIC ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
(2025-26)


THIRTY SECOND REPORT




EIGHTEENTH LOK SABHA




LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT
NEW DELHI
                                                            PAC NO. 2426


          THIRTY SECOND REPORT


          PUBLIC ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
                   (2025-26)

                      (EIGHTEENTH LOK S ABHA)




 MANPOWER AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT IN
 DELHI POLICE

[Action Taken by the Government on the Observations/Recommendations of the
Public Accounts Committee contained in their 140th Report (17th Lok Sabha)]

                        MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS




     Presented to Lok Sabha on:      05.08.2025

     Laid in Rajya Sabha on:         05.08.2025



             LOK       SABHA SECRETARIAT
                         NEW DELHI

                    July, 2025 / Sravana, 1947 (Saka)
                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                     PAGE

COMPOSITION OF THE PUBLIC ACCOUNTS                                                                      (ii)
COMMITTEE (2025-26)

INTRODUCTION   ...................................................................................      (iii)

CHAPTER I      Report.......................................................................                1

CHAPTER II     Observations/Recommendations which have been
               accepted by the Government...................................

CHAPTER III    Observations/Recommendations which the
               Committee do not desire to pursue in view of the
               replies received from the Government....................

CHAPTER IV     Observations/Recommendations in respect of which
               replies of the Government have not been accepted
               by the Committee and which require reiteration.....

CHAPTER V      Observations/Recommendations in respect of which
               the Government have furnished interim replies........


                                      APPENDICES

     I         Minutes of the 8th sitting of the Public Accounts                                        46-47
               Committee (2025-26) held on 25.07.2025

     II        Analysis of the Acton Taken by the Government                                                   48
               on the Observations/Recommendations of the
               Public Accounts Committee contained in their
               One Hundred and Fortieth Report (17th Lok Sabha)




                                                 i
          COMPOSITION OF THE PUBLIC ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
                             (2025-26)


Shri K. C. Venugopal     -     Chairperson
        MEMBERS

        LOK SABHA
2.      Shri T. R. Baalu
3.      Dr. Nishikant Dubey
4.      Shri Jagdambika Pal
5.      Shri Jai Parkash
6.      Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad
7.      Dr. C. M. Ramesh
8.      Prof. Sougata Ray
9.      Shri Magunta Sreenivasulu Reddy
10.     Smt. Aparajita Sarangi
11.     Dr. Amar Singh
12.     Shri Tejasvi Surya
13.     Shri Anurag Singh Thakur
14.     Shri Balashowry Vallabhaneni
15.     Shri Dharmendra Yadav

        RAJYA SABHA

16.     Shri Ashokrao Shankarrao Chavan
17.     Shri Shaktisinh Gohil
18.     Dr. K Laxman
19.     Shri Praful Patel
20.     Shri Sukhendu Sekhar Ray
21.     Shri Tiruchi Siva
22.     Dr. Sudhanshu Trivedi


      Secretariat

 1. Shri H. Ram Prakash            -        Joint Secretary
 2. Smt. Archna Pathania           -        Director
 3. Dr. Faiz Ahmad                 -        Deputy Secretary
 4. Shri Yogender                  -        Assistant Security Officer




                                       ii
                                 INTRODUCTION

       I, the Chairperson, Public Accounts Committee (2025-26) having been
authorised by the Committee, do present this Thirty Second Report (Eighteenth Lok
Sabha) on Action Taken by the Government on the Observations/Recommendations
of the Public Accounts Committee contained in their One Hundred and Fortieth
Report on “Manpower and Logistics Management in Delhi Police”.

2.      The One Hundred and Fortieth Report was presented to Speaker, Lok Sabha
on 29th April, 2024 and presented to Lok Sabha/laid in Rajya Sabha on 24 th July,
2024. Replies of the Government to all the Observations/Recommendations
contained in the Report were received. The Public Accounts Committee considered
and adopted the Thirty Second Report at their sitting held on 25.07.2025. Minutes of
the Sitting are given at Appendix I.

3.    For facility of reference and convenience, the Observations and
Recommendations of the Committee have been printed in bold in the body of the
Report.

4.    The Committee also place in record their appreciation of the assistance
rendered to them in the matter by the Committee Secretariat and the Office of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India.

5.    An analysis of the action taken by the Government on the
Observations/Recommendations contained in the One Hundred and Fortieth Report
(Seventeenth Lok Sabha) is given at Appendix-II.



NEW DELHI;                                                  K C VENUGOPAL
25 July, 2025                                                   Chairperson,
03 Sravana, 1947 (Saka)                           Public Accounts Committee




                                         iii
                                      CHAPTER - I

                                        REPORT

       This Report of the Public Accounts Committee deals with the Action Taken by
the Government on the Observations and Recommendations of the Committee
contained in their One Hundred Fortieth Report (17th Lok Sabha) on " Manpower and
Logistics Management in Delhi Police”.

2.           The One Hundred Fortieth Report was presented to the Speaker on 29th
April, 2024. It contained Twelve Observations/Recommendations. The Action Taken
Notes on all the Observations/Recommendations have been received from the
Ministry of Home Affairs and are categorized as under:


     (i)       Observations/Recommendations which have been accepted by the
               Government:
                 Para Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.

                                                                    Total:    12
                                                                    Chapter - II

     (ii)      Observations/Recommendations which the Committee do not desire to
               pursue in view of the replies received from the Government:
                  NIL
                                                                       Total: NIL
                                                                       Chapter - III

     (iii)     Observations/Recommendations in respect of which replies of the
               Government have not been accepted by the Committee and which require
               reiteration:
                   NIL
                                                                   Total: NIL
                                                                   Chapter - IV

     (iv)      Observations/Recommendations in respect of which Government have
               furnished interim replies/no replies:
                   NIL


                                                                    Total: NIL
                                                                    Chapter -V
3.     The detailed examination of the subject by the Committee had revealed
certain shortcomings/deficiencies on the part of the Ministry of Home Affairs which
inter-alia included lack of prudent decision-making and mismanagement in the
staff(Personnel); lack of coordination between the Administration and District
Authorities, leading to disputes and delays in work etc. The Committee had
accordingly given their observations/recommendations in their One Hundred Fortieth
Report.

4.     The Action Taken Notes furnished by the Ministry of Home Affairs on each of
the Observations/Recommendations of the Committee contained in their One
Hundred Fortieth Report have been reproduced in the relevant Chapters of this
Report. The Committee will now deal with the action taken by the Government, on
some of their Observations/Recommendations which either need reiteration or merit
comments.

5.    The Committee desire the Ministry of Home Affairs to furnish Action
Taken Notes in respect of Observations/ Recommendations contained in
Chapter I of the Report, positively within three months of the presentation of
the Report to the Parliament.

RECOMMENDATION NO.3

Assessment of reasons for delays in Manpower Allocation

6. The Committee in their original Report No. 140(17th Lok Sabha) had
   recommended as under:

“In regard to the manpower deployment in Delhi Police, the Committee learnt that
there exists four per cent excess manpower at headquarters and a concerning 35
per cent shortage at police stations in the audited districts.

In the opinion of the Committee, the evident strain on police personnel, working well
beyond the prescribed daily hours, underscores the urgency of rectifying these
imbalances. Addressing the acknowledged issues of newly created police stations
functioning without sanctioned strength and the failure to revise police station
strength after the separation of Law & Order from Investigation is imperative. The
Committee, in this regard recommend that a prompt reassessment be undertaken to
align manpower allocation with increased demands from initiatives like CCTNS,
various desks, and specialized units. Failing to rectify these disparities not only
compromises law enforcement effectiveness but also burdens police personnel
                                         2
unnecessarily. Immediate action with well-defined strategy is essential to be
implemented for the overall improvement of policing in the selected districts.”



7.      Action taken by Ministry

Formation of 02 Districts, 08 Sub-Division, 41 Police Stations (including 15 Cyber
Police Stations) and 03 essential units has caused shortage in other Districts/units
as these Districts/Units are running without any sanctioned manpower by drawing
personnel from existing sources. Earlier in the year 2018 MHA had sanctioned
12,518 posts, out of which MHA released 3,139 posts in 1st phase on 24.7.2018 and
2,388 posts in 2nd phase. Regarding release of remaining posts i.e. 6,991 from
MHA, the same is under consideration in Ministry of Finance.

Regarding reassessment to align manpower allocation with increased demands from
initiatives like CCTNS, various desks, and specialized units, NPC has started
manpower audit of Delhi Police on 17.04.2023 which is expected to submit its audit
report by mid of August 2024.

However, to augment the manpower in the frontline policing in the district, following
force-multiplier are implemented on ground by Delhi Police which shall significantly
enhance its capabilities to maintain law and order, ensure public safety, and respond
efficiently to emergencies:

     1. Technology Integration:
        A strategically placed network of CCTV cameras under Safe City Project has
        been initiated which provides real-time surveillance, aiding in crime prevention
        and investigation. The extensive coverage deters criminal activity in
        vulnerable areas and provides crucial footage for post-crime analysis.
     2. Community Engagement
      Engagement of various stakeholders under various community outreach
        schemes such as Eyes & Ears Scheme, Neighbourhood Watch Scheme,
        Police Mitras, RWAs/MWAs work as force multipliers.
      The Police Mitra Scheme fosters a collaborative spirit. Civilian volunteers,
        designated as "Police Mitras," assist law enforcement with tasks like
        patrolling, traffic management, and intelligence gathering. This program not
        only strengthens community relations but also extends the reach of the police
        force, creating a wider net for crime prevention.
      Neighbourhood Watch Programs encourages residents to participate in
        monitoring suspicious activities and reporting them to the police.
      Prahari Scheme focuses on empowering security guards and watchmen in
        residential societies and commercial establishments. Prahari transforms them
        into valuable force multipliers for the police.

     3. Smart Policing
      e-FIR System: the online platform allows citizens to conveniently register
        complaints (FIRs) electronically, streamlining the reporting process. This not
        only saves time but also empowers citizens to report crimes promptly, leading
                                            3
       to faster investigations and improved case resolution rates.
      E-Beat Book System improves the efficiency of beat constable and empower
       them for quick verification and collation of information and dissemination, thus
       saving time, effort and energy.

8. Vetting Comments of Audit

PAC may be apprised of the:
  a) status of recruitment of remaining 6991 posts; and
  b) Findings in the report of manpower audit of Delhi Police conducted by the
     National Productivity Council and the action taken thereon.


9. Ministry’s Final Reply

 In addition to the Action Taken by Delhi Police and in view of observations made by
the Audit, it is also submitted that:-
    a) The proposal for creations of 6991 posts of various ranks in Delhi Police is
       under active consideration of the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of
       Finance.
    b) The National Productivity Council (NPC) has submitted 19 draft reports in
       three parts vide letter 23.10.2024.Part-A contains 17 draft reports focusing on
       the manpower requirements (Law & Order, DAP,PHQ, Licensing, Vig. &DE
       Cell, Crime, EOW, Transport Units, SPUWAC, Special Branch, Special Cell,
       Traffic, PCR, Security, P&L, Ops. &Communication and DPA);Part – B
       contains 01 draft report on cadre review, organizational re-structuring and
       necessary training and re-training interventions; and Part-C also contains 01
       draft report on asset management practices and requirements. All Heads of
       Verticals have been directed to engage three/four officers from their verticals
       to examine and to work out suggestions. The exercise is going on day-to-day
       basis so that the report could be finalized at the earliest.

Comments of the Committee

10.    The Committee had desired that a prompt reassessment be undertaken
to align manpower allocation with increased demands from initiatives like
CCTNS, various desks, and specialized units and immediate action with well-
defined strategy be implemented for the overall improvement of policing in the
selected districts.The Committee note from reply in the ATN that the creation
of 6991 posts has not been addressed yet and the proposal is under active
consideration of the Deptt. Of Expenditure, Min. of Finance. Besides, the ATN
states that 19 draft Reports submitted by the NPC is still under process of
finalization and thus action taken thereon is still pending. The Committee
desire to be apprised of the updated action taken in this regard.

RECOMMENDATION NO.8

Urgent Formulation of Comprehensive IT Policy:


                                           4
11. The Committee in their original Report No. 140(17th Lok Sabha) had
recommended as under:

“The Committee emphasize the need for showing urgency in formulating and
implementing a comprehensive IT policy for Delhi Police. The Committee also
recommend that Delhi Police expeditiously finalizes the IT policy, taking into account
the rapidly evolving technology landscape and the specific needs of law
enforcement. The Ministry should obtain regular updates on the progress of the IT
policy's formulation, seeking confirmation on its framing and subsequent
implementation. In this regard, the Committee advocate for the appointment of a
regular Chief Technology Officer (CTO) along with the dedicated staff, aligning with
the sanctioned strength of 52 positions for the IT Cell. Further, the Ministry should
closely scrutinize the progress made in both framing the IT policy and staffing the IT
Cell, ensuring that the IT infrastructure of Delhi Police is modernized and efficiently
managed.”

12. Action Taken by Ministry

“Delhi police is in the process of formulation of a comprehensive IT policy. The
same is being tailored keeping in mind the technological advancement and the
threats to be mitigated. The comprehensive IT policy aims to serve as a guiding
document for outlining the rules, procedures, and best practices governing the use
and management of information technology resources.The proposed IT policy
whose contents are under review covers the details about roles and responsibilities
of the stakeholders and is in line with the Data Protection Act of India. It has key
components of access control, security measures, hardware and software
management and protection. It is also covering the topics of social media usage,
training of the personnel and awareness. Above all, it also contemplates the critical
issue of sensitive infrastructure and the process of incident reporting and response.
As this is the new policy for Delhi police the same is being subjected to detailed
analysis, especially in the context of existing guidelines and frameworks. The
content of the same is under review with the specialized vertical (Technology and
Project Implementation) of the Delhi police. Nevertheless, to address the ongoing
challenges and to frame the guidelines Delhi police issues timely guidelines to its
personnel through the Technology and Project Implementation division.”


13. Vetting Comments of Audit

       Ministry may intimate the Committee about the timelines for completion of the
formulation of IT policy. Further, Ministry’s reply is silent in respect of the
Committee’s recommendation for the appointment of a regular Chief Technology
Officer along with the dedicated staff for the formulation of IT Policy. PAC may be
intimated about the same.


14.   Ministry’s Final Reply



                                           5
        Delhi police is in the process of formulation of a comprehensive IT policy. The
draft framework of IT policy has been prepared.The framework and contents of I.T.
Policy is under review with the specialized vertical of Technology and Project
Implementation Division of Delhi Police. The proposal for creation of post of Chief
Technical Advisor (CTA) isalso under process.

Comments of the Committee

15.   The Committee hadrecommended that Delhi Police expeditiously finalize
the IT policy, taking into account the rapidly evolving technology landscape
and the specific needs of law enforcement. The Ministry in their Action Taken
Note have informed that Delhi Police is in the process of formulation of
comprehensive IT policy. The ATN does not mentionabout the timelines for
completion of the formulation of IT policy. Further, Ministry’s reply is silent in
respect of the Committee’s recommendation for the appointment of a regular
Chief Technology Officer along with the dedicated staff for the formulation of
IT Policy and also states that the proposal for creation of the post of chief
Technical Advisor is under process.


 The Committee recommend that the Ministry set clear deadline and appoint a
CTO with dedicated staff. The Committee may be apprised of the progress in
the matter.

                                          ***




                                          6
                                     CHAPTER II

  OBSERVATIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE WHICH HAVE
              BEEN ACCEPTED BY THE GOVERNMENT



OBSERVATION/RECOMMENDATIONNO. 1

       The Committee note that National Capital Territory of Delhi, (NCTD) the
bustling capital city of India, is a melting pot of cultures, languages, and aspirations.
With a population exceeding two crores and covering an area of 1483 square
kilometers, Delhi Police stands as the largest metropolitan police force in the
Country. One of the primary functions of the Delhi Police is to maintain law and order
in the city. This entails preventing and investigating crimes, ensuring public safety
during events and gatherings, and swiftly responding to emergencies.

Action Taken by Ministry

        The Delhi Police upholds a robust security framework designed to deter
criminals, safeguard public safety, and maintain law and order within the National
Capital Territory of Delhi. The multifaceted approach adopted by Delhi Police
integrates community engagement, technological advancements, specialized units,
and strategic planning to ensure a secure environment for all. Delhi Police has
implemented various measures and initiatives to prevent and investigate crime,
ensure public safety during events and gatherings, maintain law and order in the
city, and swiftly respond to emergencies. The details of some such initiatives are as
under:

    PREVENTING AND INVESTIGATING CRIME:

   1. Enhanced visibility and response:
      To enhance visibility and response, PCR (Police Control Room) vans, ERV
      (Emergency Response Vehicle), specialized vehicles such as Prakhar,
      Parakaramand Motor cycles patrol the city, deterring criminal activity and
      ensuring a prompt response to emergencies. This visible presence of law
      enforcement provides a sense of security to residents and discourages
      potential crimes.

   2. Technological Integration:

       To recognize the effective use of technology, the Delhi Police utilizes a
       comprehensive digital infrastructure which includes:

           A large-scale initiative under the Safe City Project has been taken
            wherein thousands of CCTV cameras are installed across Delhi, which
            are monitored from centralized command centers. Such extensive
            coverage deters criminal activity in vulnerable areas and provides crucial
            footage for post-crime analysis and detection.
           Cameras with ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) technology
                                           7
          have been installed throughout Delhi to detect and track stolen vehicles.


 3. Integrated Database:
    The investigating officers are having access to a comprehensive database of
    criminals, facilitating efficient sharing of information among police stations.

 4. Mobile Apps for Public Safety:
     A safety app for women (Himmat Plus) to send distress calls to the police
      with real-time location tracking is functional for use by women victims.
     An app (Delhi Police One Touch Away) providing access to various police
      services, including emergency contacts, police station locator, and crime
      reporting is operative.


 5. Hotspot Policing:
     Delhi Police is focusing its resources on areas with high crime rates to
      reduce incidents.
     Delhi Police regularly reviews and analyses the crime patterns to adjust its
      policing strategies
     Integrated Facilitation Booths are functioning at important location in all
      Districts.

 6. Specialized Units:
     Special Cell deals with terrorism-related crimes and organized crime.
     Anti-Auto Theft Squads are focused on prevention and investigation of
      vehicle thefts.
     Anti-Narcotics Task Force and Anti-Narcotics Cell has been formed to keep
      check on drug trafficking and drug menace in Delhi.
     A dedicated staff from Tourist Police is deployed at important tourist places
      which are frequently visited by Domestic/International Tourists.

7.    Neighbourhood Watch Programs:
      These initiatives have been taken by Delhi Police with following aim:
          Encouraging community participation in monitoring suspicious
            activities.
          Building a network of local volunteers to support police efforts.

 MAINTAINING LAW AND ORDER
  (Ensuring Public Safety during Events and Gatherings)

     1. Event-Specific Security Plans:
        The Delhi Police adopts a proactive approach for events and gatherings.
        Security plans are meticulously drawn based on the event's size, nature,
        and potential risks. These plans also encompass traffic diversions,
        deployment of specialized security personnel like bomb disposal squads,
        and installation of temporary CCTV cameras. This meticulous planning
        ensures a safe and secure environment for participants and minimizes
        disruptions to the surrounding areas.
                                         8
   2. CCTV Surveillance including Facial Recognition System (FRS):
      During mega events including large public gathering strategically placed
      network of CCTV cameras provides real-time feeds to identify and monitor
      individuals of interest.

   3. DRONES AND VIDEOGRPAHY:
      Delhi Police uses drones for aerial surveillance during large gatherings,
      protests, public events, major festivals like Diwali and Holi to monitor crowd
      behavior, crowd movements and detect potential disturbances to manage
      security.

   4. PROACTIVE INTELLIGENCE GATHERING:
      It includes pro-active intelligence gathering about any major events
      including protest, agitation, procession etc. that has direct bearing on
      maintenance of the law & order situation in Delhi. Delhi Police collates,
      refines and coordinate with other intelligence agencies to prioritize and
      project the assessment and precautions to be taken. This pro-active
      approach tremendously helps in advance planning and taking adequate
      security measures to prevent and neutralize threat before they escalate.

   5. Deployment of CAPFs/Reserve Force:
      Additional force from CAPFs, CP Reserves & District Reserves are
      deployed during the police arrangement of national importance, major
      festivals, events, processions/protests and area specific combing operations
      and area dominance.
   6. Deployment of Specialized Teams:
      Delhi Police deploys Quick Response Team with SWAT Commando, bomb
      disposal squads, and sniffer dogs during major events and VIP security
      arrangements.

   7. Traffic Management:
      Delhi Police carries out advance planning, real-time monitoring and
      management of traffic to ensure smooth flow and safety during events and
      major festivals.

   8. Collaboration and Advance Coordination with Other Agencies:
      Delhi Police collaborate with fire services, medical teams, and municipal
      bodies and other stakeholders to ensure comprehensive safety measures
      during events and major festivals.

 SWIFTLY RESPONDING TO EMERGENCIES:

   1. Emergency Response Support System (ERSS):
      A unified emergency number “112” has been assigned for police, fire, and
      medical assistance and integration with various emergency services for
      coordinated response.

   2. PCR Vans with (MDTs):

                                        9
      PCR vans are strategically placed across the city for quick response to the
       incidents.
      In-vehicle computers Mobile Data Terminals (MDTs) are provided with PCR
       vans to access real-time information, receive/dispatch instructions, and
       report incidents.

   3. C4i- Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC):
    A high-tech control centre for monitoring city-wide activities and managing
      city-wide emergency response through CCTV feeds, GPS data from police
      vehicles, and other inputs.
    Coordinated response to incidents and emergencies with real-time data and
      communication incident Management.
   4. Training and Capacity Building:
      Regular training programs are being conducted for police personnel on
      emergency response protocols.

   5. Regular drills and Mock Exercises
      On regular basis drills and mock Exercises are being conducted to enhance
      preparedness and response besides inter-agency coordination.

   6. Control Rooms:
      A Centralized Command Room is functional which is fully equipped with
        modern technology to handle emergency calls and to coordinate the
        response effectively.
      At the district level District Control Rooms are fully functional for localized
        response and management.

 FORECASTING GROUND WORK ON A 24x7BASIS OF ALL IMPORTANT
  HAPPENINGS:

  1. Delhi Police gather information, collate & examine it and disseminate the
     actionable inputs to various stakeholders promptly and precisely through
     various communiqués viz. Special Report, Advisory, Alerts, Advance & Daily
     Summary of Information (DSI).
  2. This mandate is achieved through human intelligence (HUMINT) and
     intelligence collected through use of advanced technologies, available open
     sources (OSINT) and in close cooperation with multiple state & central
     agencies.
  3. Both field functionaries and backend teams work tirelessly and round the
     clock in tracking crime and law & order patterns, identifying threats,
     information collection, analyzing data and generating actionable inputs.
  4. This helps law enforcement agencies in creating an Intelligence-led policing
     which shifts the focus from reactive response to proactive prevention and
     provides a foundation for informed decisions at various levels of
     establishment.
  5. Delhi Police develops information and covers various programs through its
     specialized unit as well as through district police. A total of 8333 programs
     were held in the city during the year 2023 falling in various categories.
  6. On ground actionable intelligence regarding organized crimes, notorious
                                         10
     criminals, encroachment on Govt lands etc. is collected through field agents of
     Special Branch which is then shared with all concerned stakeholders for
     necessary action.
  7. Event based Data Analytical tools are under development for forecasting Law
     & Order events based on inputs from ground, previous arrangements and
     trends.

 SAFE CITY PROJECT OF DELHI POLICE: -

  With the aim to create a safe, secure and empowering environment for women in
  public places, to enable them to pursue all opportunities without the threat of
  gender-based violence and/or harassment, the Ministry of Home Affairs in
  collaboration with Ministry of Women & Child Development, GOI has approved
  “Safe City Project” for implementation by Delhi Police within the jurisdiction of
  NCT of Delhi. This project also aims to prevent and curb all forms of crimes
  against women in public places by providing technology-enabled surveillance
  system, 24x7 real time video-based analytics, quick and effective emergency
  response system, dedicated emergency vehicles for women in distress.

      Objectives –The objectives of the project are –

         Ensure, through use of technology, prompt availability of professionally
          equipped police personnel to reach women in distress,
         Increased and demonstrative presence/visibility in public places
          through installation of CCTV cameras and deployment of dedicated
          women-safety Mobile Police Vans (PRAKHAR VANS).
         Quick and effective emergency response system to address the needs
          of women in distress.
         24x7 CCTV monitoring of public areas frequently visited by women and
          susceptible to female crime.
         Integration of location-based services and crime and criminal
          databases with CCTV feeds for prompt and effective resolution of
          women safety issues at public places.
         Analysis of video and creation of actionable warnings/alerts for
          preventive and curative actions.
      Components –
         Installation of 10,000 CCTV Cameras in the jurisdiction of Delhi,
         Setting up of Command & Control Centre having facilities of Video
          Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Facial Recognition
          System, etc. at Police Hdqrs., District Hdqrs. and Police Station Level.
         Integration of various Data Sets (32 Data Sets) and CCTV Projects
          under various schemes of Delhi Police, with the Safe City Project
          Platform.
         2 Nos. Mobile Command & Control Vehicle
         88 Prakhar Vans equipped with MDT, Communication Device, Body
          Worn Camera, Vehicle Mounted Cameras, GPS, etc.
         Provision for collaborative monitoring by integration of CCTV Projects
                                        11
             of other departments, in future.
            GIS Mapping of CCTV Cameras under Safe City Project as well as
             other schemes of Delhi Police for installation of CCTV Cameras, to
             avoid duplication.
       Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune, a
        Scientific Society under MeitY, GOI has been engaged as Total Service
        Provider (TSP) for implementation of the project on Turnkey basis. The
        implementation of the project is in progress. The Ministry of Home Affairs,
        GOI has extended the tenure of implementation of Safe City Project upto
        31stDec., 2024.


Vetting comments Audit

No further comments.(R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)




Ministry’s Final Reply

No further comments in view of the above.However, as regard to status of the
implementation of Safe City Project, it is submitted that it is still in progress and C-
DAC (Total Service Provider) has projected new timelines as 30.06.2025 to complete
the project implementation.


  (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140 thReport Dated 30.01.2025)


OBSERVATION/RECOMMENDATION NO. 2

       The current representation of women in Delhi Police, as the Committee find,
at 15.17% falls significantly short of the commendable 33% target set for 2035.
Taking note of this fact, the Committee strongly recommend that Delhi Police take
immediate and robust measures to accelerate progress towards achieving gender
diversity. In addition to the existing policy of 33% reservation for women in direct
recruitment for non-Gazetted posts, the Committee would like to urge the initiation
of special recruitment drives and targeted outreach programs to attract more
women across all cadres, from Constable to Sub-Inspector. It is imperative to state
that Delhi Police should set and implement a more ambitious timeline for reaching
the 33% target, ensuring that the force reflects the principles of gender equality
and inclusivity under intimation to the Committee. The Committee, here,
emphasize the need for proactive strategies and transparent reporting
mechanisms to monitor and evaluate the progress, holding Delhi Police
accountable for the timely and effective implementation of these measures.


Action Taken by Ministry

                                          12
       In recent years, Delhi Police is recruiting women personnel on priority basis.
Regular vacancies are being advertised for this purpose and recruitment
examinations are being conducted. In recently concluded recruitments for various
posts in 2024,Delhi Police has recruited a total number of 2702 women constables
maintaining the criteria of recruiting 33% women personnel which are currently under
training

The chart for 10 years showing the recruitment data from 2014 to 2024 as 33% in
Delhi Police is as under:


                           30000
No. of candidates joined Delhi




                           25000

                           20000

                           15000
            Police




                           10000                                                                         Male

                                 5000

                                    0
                                                                                                  TOTA
                                        2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
                                                                                                    L
       YEAR
       Male                             1102 736   842   34   4358 1273 114    261 3400 234 6094 18448
          Female                        1342 202   141   1    2309 581    42   16   2014 105 2702 9455
          Total                         2444 938   983   35   6667 1854 156    277 5414 339 8796 27903
          % of women 54.91 21.54 14.34 2.857 34.63 31.34 26.92 5.776 37.2 30.97 30.72 33.89




                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                       2013


                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                      YEAR




                                                                                                                          AS ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSPR, 6.84%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SI, 5.41%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ASI, 9.72%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HC, 4.19%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2013




     Committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CT, 8.15%




                                                                                                                                                    R

                                                                                                                                      90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MTS, 16.92%




                                                                                                                           100
                                                                                                                                                  INSP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSPR, 6.90%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ASI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SI, 8.89%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ASI, 9.47%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSPR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HC, 3.49%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CT, 8.17%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MTS, 17.10%




                                                                                                                                                      SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSPR, 7.32%




                                                                                                                                      260
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SI, 10.12%




                                                                                                                           1242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ASI, 9.93%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HC, 4.18%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CT, 10.96%




     is still only 16.83 percent.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MTS, 17.39%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSPR, 7.44%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SI, 10.43%




                                                                                              Vetting comments of Audit
                                                                                                                                                      ASI




                                                                                                                           519
                                                                                                                                      635
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ASI, 9.74%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HC, 4.21%


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT, 11.23%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MTS, 17.37%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSPR, 7.44%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SI, 11.85%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASI, 9.14%




                                                                                                                                                      HC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HC, 3.77%




                                                                                                                                      787
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2017




                                                                                                                           1152
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT, 11.88%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MTS, 18.93%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSPR, 7.30%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SI, 11.75%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total percentage of women in Delhi Police                          ASI, 8.58%




14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HC, 4.15%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2018




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CT, 12.02%




                                                                                                                                                      CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MTS, 19.18%




                                                                                                                                      3611

                                                                                                                           11331
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INSPR, 7.47%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SI, 13.77%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASI, 8.19%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HC, 3.56%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2019




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CT, 15.98%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MTS, 19.14%




                                                                                                                           211
                                                                                                                                      297
                                                                                                                                                      MTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INSPR, 7.53%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SI, 13.96%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ASI, 9.19%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HC, 4.02%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT, 16.82%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MTS, 19.25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSPR, 7.29%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SI, 14.29%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASI, 9.30%




                                                                                                                                      4893
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HC, 3.89%




                                                                                                                           14555
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CT, 17.28%




                                                                                                                                               TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MTS, 16.64%


                                                                                                                                               WOMEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INSPR, 7.50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SI, 16.14%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASI, 8.10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HC, 3.78%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2022




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CT, 20.25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MTS, 16.57%
                                                                                                                                                      (M+F)                                                                                                                                              INSPR, 7.50%




                                                                                                                           86472
                                                                                                                                      58703
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SI, 18.22%
                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASI, 8.06%
                                                                                                                                                     PRESENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HC, 3.73%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2023




               attract more women across all cadres, from Constable to Sub-Inspector;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CT, 21.43%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MTS, 16.64%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INSPR, 7.24%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SI, 17.71%




         a) initiation of special recruitment drives and targeted outreach programs to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ASI, 9.18%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HC, 5.24%




     Further, Ministry’s reply is silent about the following recommendations of the
               As evident from the reply, the percentage of women personnel in Delhi Police
                                                                                                                                                                       ((F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140 thReport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dated 30.01.2025)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2024




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CT, 22.59%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YEAR WISE & RANK WISE REPRESENTATION OF WOMEN IN DELHI POLICE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MTS, 16.58%
                                                                                                                                                               AGE

                                                                                                                                       8.34%



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSPR, 7.23%
                                                                                                                             16.83%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SI, 18.21%
                                                                                                                                                             PERCENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASI, 8.96%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HC, 5.13%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CT, 23.25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRESENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MTS, 16.60%
   b) to set and implement a timeline for reaching the 33% target; and
   c) for proactive strategies and transparent reporting mechanisms to monitor and
   evaluate the progress.(R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)

Ministry’s Final Reply

Apart from the above ‘Action Taken’ by Delhi Police, the following measures have
also been adopted/action taken for ensuring 33% female representation in Delhi
Police by 2035:-

   (a) The MHA has approved reservation of 33% for women in direct recruitment
       from Constable to Sub-Inspector in Police forces of all the Union Territories
       including Delhi Police.
   (b) Since 2015 onwards, 33% representation of women in Delhi Police is being
       ensured in all fresh recruitments.
   (c) Two Special Recruitment Drives in North- Eastern States (In year 2015 &
       2018) were conducted by Delhi Police for filling up the vacancies of Ct. (Exe.)
       Male/Female in Delhi Police, in which 33% of vacancies were filled from
       female candidates.
   (d) Under the Govt of India's Mission Mode Recruitment, 15,964offers of
       appointmentwere given from the year 2022 to 2024. Out of the total,
       10,937(68.510%) male and 5,027(31.489%) female candidates have been
       given offer of appointment.

Observation/RecommendationNo. 3

       In regard to the manpower deployment in Delhi Police, the Committee learnt
that there exists four per cent excess manpower at headquarters and a concerning
35 per cent shortage at police stations in the audited districts.

In the opinion of the Committee, the evident strain on police personnel, working well
beyond the prescribed daily hours, underscores the urgency of rectifying these
imbalances. Addressing the acknowledged issues of newly created police stations
functioning without sanctioned strength and the failure to revise police station
strength after the separation of Law & Order from Investigation is imperative. The
Committee, in this regard recommend that a prompt reassessment be undertaken to
align manpower allocation with increased demands from initiatives like CCTNS,
various desks, and specialized units. Failing to rectify these disparities not only
compromises law enforcement effectiveness but also burdens police personnel
unnecessarily. Immediate action with well-defined strategy is essential to be
implemented for the overall improvement of policing in the selected districts.

Action Taken by Ministry

        Formation of 02 Districts, 08 Sub-Division, 41 Police Stations (including 15
Cyber Police Stations) and 03 essential units has caused shortage in other
Districts/units as these Districts/Units are running without any sanctioned manpower
by drawing personnel from existing sources. Earlier in the year 2018 MHA had
sanctioned 12,518 posts, out of which MHA released 3,139 posts in 1st phase on

                                         15
24.7.2018 and 2,388 posts in 2nd phase. Regarding release of remaining posts i.e.
6,991 from MHA, the same is under consideration in Ministry of Finance.

Regarding reassessment to align manpower allocation with increased demands from
initiatives like CCTNS, various desks, and specialized units, NPC has started
manpower audit of Delhi Police on 17.04.2023 which is expected to submit its audit
report by mid of August 2024.

However, to augment the manpower in the frontline policing in the district, following
force-multiplier are implemented on ground by Delhi Police which shall significantly
enhance its capabilities to maintain law and order, ensure public safety, and respond
efficiently to emergencies:

   2. Technology Integration:
      A strategically placed network of CCTV cameras under Safe City Project has
      been initiated which provides real-time surveillance, aiding in crime prevention
      and investigation. The extensive coverage deters criminal activity in
      vulnerable areas and provides crucial footage for post-crime analysis.
   3. Community Engagement
    Engagement of various stakeholders under various community outreach
      schemes such as Eyes & Ears Scheme, Neighborhood Watch Scheme,
      Police Mitras, RWAs/MWAs work as force multipliers.
    The Police Mitra Scheme fosters a collaborative spirit. Civilian volunteers,
      designated as "Police Mitras," assist law enforcement with tasks like
      patrolling, traffic management, and intelligence gathering. This program not
      only strengthens community relations but also extends the reach of the police
      force, creating a wider net for crime prevention.
    Neighbourhood Watch Programs encourages residents to participate in
      monitoring suspicious activities and reporting them to the police.
    Prahari Scheme focuses on empowering security guards and watchmen in
      residential societies and commercial establishments. Prahari transforms them
      into valuable force multipliers for the police.

16. Smart Policing
     e-FIR System: the online platform allows citizens to conveniently register
      complaints (FIRs) electronically, streamlining the reporting process. This not
      only saves time but also empowers citizens to report crimes promptly, leading
      to faster investigations and improved case resolution rates.
     E-Beat Book System improves the efficiency of beat constable and empower
      them for quick verification and collation of information and dissemination, thus
      saving time, effort and energy.

Vetting comments ofAudit

PAC may be apprised of the:
  a) status of recruitment of remaining 6991 posts; and
  b) findings in the report of manpower audit of Delhi Police conducted by the
     National Productivity Council and the action taken thereon.

                                         16
                                          (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)


Ministry’s Final Reply

In addition to the Action Taken by Delhi Police and in view of observations made by
the Audit, it is also submitted that:-
    a) The proposal for creations of 6991 posts of various ranks in Delhi Police is
       under active consideration of the Department of Expenditure,Ministry of
       Finance.
    b) The National Productivity Council (NPC) has submitted 19 draft reports in
       three parts vide letter 23.10.2024.Part-A contains 17 draft reports focusing on
       the manpower requirements (Law & Order,DAP,PHQ, Licensing, Vig. &DE
       Cell, Crime, EOW, Transport Units, SPUWAC, Special Branch, Special Cell,
       Traffic, PCR, Security, P&L, Ops. &Communication and DPA);Part – B
       contains 01 draft report on cadre review, organizational re-structuring and
       necessary training and re-training interventions; andPart-C also contains 01
       draft report on asset management practices and requirements.All Heads of
       Verticals have been directed to engage three/four officers from their verticals
       to examine and to work out suggestions. The exercise is going on day-to-day
       basis so that the report could be finalized at the earliest.


  (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReportDated 30.01.2025)

                         Comments of the Committee,see Para No. 10 of Chapter I



Observation/RecommendationNo. 4

       The Committee during their examination of the subject find that the
recruitment process for a substantial number of posts is yet to be initiated. While
taking note of this fact, the Committee recommend the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MHA) and Delhi Police to expedite the recruitment process for the remaining
number of the sanctioned posts (6,991). This step, they feel, is crucial to address the
current shortage in manpower, as highlighted in the audit findings. A prompt
implementation of the recruitment plan will significantly contribute to improving the
operational efficiency of Delhi Police, ensuring a more robust and adequately staffed
law enforcement agency.


Action Taken by Ministry

                The proposal of 6,991 posts sanctioned is in active consideration in the
Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance. 33% posts have been reserved for
women out of 6,991 posts. After approval of the DoE, the recruitment process will be
initiated at the earliest to fill up the vacancies in a time bound manner. The post-wise
break is as under:

                                          17
Inspector   Sub-Inspector   Assistant Sub          Head         Constable         Total
                              Inspector          Constable
  130            735             982              2,048            3,096          6,991




   Vetting comments of Audit


   PAC may be apprised of the current status of recruitment.



                                            (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)
   Ministry’s Final Reply

   In addition to the Action Taken by Delhi Police, it is apprised that Recruitment
   Process of 8,510 posts is underway. Recruitment to 356 vacancies is under process,
   8,005 vacancies are to be advertised by the SSC and 149 vacancies are to be
   advertised by Delhi Police. In all fresh recruitments 33% reservation for women is
   being ensured.
                        (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReport
                                                                   Dated 30.01.2025)

   Observation/RecommendationNo. 5

                 In the sequel, the Committee further recommend the establishment of a
   periodic review system for specialized training of Delhi Police personnel. The audit
   report revealed a concerning 42% shortage in specialized training during the period
   of 2016-19. To address this gap, a systematic review mechanism should be put in
   place to monitor and ensure the consistent provision of both familiarization and
   specialized training.

   Action Taken by Ministry

                 Delhi Police has established a periodic review system for specialized
   training of Delhi Police personnel. A systematic review mechanism is put in place by
   Delhi Police to monitor and ensure the consistent provision of both familiarization
   and specialized training. The details of specialized in-service courses conducted by
   Delhi Police during the year 2016 to 2019 are as follows:
      Sl.     Year        Total Types of      Total No. of        No. of Participants
     No.                     Courses            courses          attended the course
                            conducted             held
       1      2016              42                 246                   7736
       2      2017              56                 214                   6519
       3      2018              50                 263                   6944
       4      2019              60                 211                   5520


                                            18
      Further, to enhance the soft-skills and citizen-centric approach of frontline
       staff who interact with public on day-to-day basis, an elaborate training
       program has been got conducted for 37,611 Delhi Police Personnel. These
       were staff from police stations, PCR call takers, IGI, Metro, Licensing Branch,
       Special Branch, Security etc.
      Delhi Police Personnel were trained under ‘Mission Karmayogi’ Scheme
       through a reputed firm M/s. Illumine Labs, Mumbai. Now, the above-
       mentioned trained staffs are being assessed by a third-party impact
       assessment agency M/s. Ikkai India Research Pvt. Ltd. With the above-
       mentioned specialized training, Delhi Police has addressed the shortage in
       specialized training to a large extent.
      Further to address the gap between latest emerging technologies and the skill
       sets of our personnel the Tech and PI Div. has identified 804 tech savvy
       personnel across all ranks in entire Delhi Police. Delhi Police Personnel
       segregated in three categories and will be sent to specialized institutes of
       higher learning all over India.
      Total 10,221 police personnel of Delhi Police were got registered on iGoT
       Platform as on 10.07.2024 and the process of registration on iGoT to cover
       more staff is also undergoing.
      Upgradation of e-LMS (NIPUN) with module-based e-learning is under
       process with preparation of draft technical specifications of hardware and
       software for advanced version of e-LMS (NIPUN).
      The Standing Orders relating to Basic Training of DANIPS, PSI, Constables,
       Photographers and Promotional Courses of Drill Instructor, SI Confirmation,
       ASI Confirmation, HC Confirmation are under process. The newly enacted
       criminal laws are also being incorporated these SO’s.
      MoU was signed with RRU on 10.06.2021 for five years. In pursuance of the
       same an “Agreement on Affiliation and Accreditation of Courses conducted at
       DPA” signed on 16.11.2022. ‘Post Graduate Diploma in Police Administration
       and Investigation’ was awarded to successful trainees of DANIPS and PSI
       Batches.
      Diploma in Police Administration and Investigation’ is awarded to successful
       trainees of Recruit Constables Batches at the time of their passing out from
       DPA by RRU.

Vetting comments of Audit

No further comments, in view of the action taken.

                                         (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)


Ministry’s Final Reply

In addition to the Action Taken by Delhi Police, it is also pertinent to mention here
that 65,791 Police Personnel have been registered on iGOTfor various trainings, till
16.01.2025.
                       (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1)(E-3556225)/140thReport
                                                                   Dated 30.01.2025)
                                          19
Observation/RecommendationNo. 6

                The Committee note the successful reduction of third-party damages
and improvement in CCTV functionality in Delhi. To build on this, the Committee
recommend strengthening of collaboration with civic agencies through enhanced
liaison efforts and regular meetings to proactively discuss potential risks to the CCTV
infrastructure. The establishment of a dedicated task force, comprising
representatives from Delhi Police, contractual firms, and civic agencies, is advised to
expedite joint surveys and settle payments promptly in cases of damages.
Technological solutions, such as advanced analytics and automated alert systems,
should be explored to bolster monitoring capabilities. Continuous analysis of monthly
reports is recommended to identify trends and implement targeted improvements in
problematic zones. The Committee also suggest setting realistic numerical goals for
further improvement in CCTV functionality, aiming for incremental increases based
on historical performance data. By implementing these measures, Delhi Police can
fortify existing strategies, streamline damage resolution, and leverage technology for
a more effective and reliable CCTV Surveillance System.

       Regarding the audit observations on CCTV functionality, the Committee note
the Delhi Police's progress in increasing the success rate from 84% to 87% in 2023.
However, keeping in view the observations of the C&AG, the Committee recommend
a more robust monitoring mechanism to be in place. Collaborative efforts with third-
party providers to minimize damages and ensure effective CCTV functionality are
essential to be mentioned and to be taken serious note of the same.


Action Taken by Ministry

        The CCTV Surveillance System installed by ECIL are being maintained as per
Standing Order No 397/10which also contains the procedures and directions to
handle with the third-party damages to take prompt remedial action to ensure the
functionality of CCTV Surveillance System at the maximum by the user
Districts/Units. Besides, the agreement contracts for CCTV Surveillance System
installed by the agencies other than ECIL have also been provided to the user
Districts/Units for taking adequate action to minimize the third-party damages as well
as to repair the damaged/non-functional CCTV System due to third party damages
or any other reasons.

       Moreover, in order to prevent third party damages, various other steps such
as close liaison with the land owning agencies & other stake holders, proper
communication between operators in the Main Control Station (MCS) and the beat
staff/patrolling staff, briefing of beat/patrolling staff, fixing display boards indicating
CCTV System layout structure in different areas, carrying out immediate joint
surveys in case any CCTV cameras became non-functional due to theft, accident,
construction work, vandalism etc. are being undertaken to ensure immediate
repair/restoration.



                                            20
       In addition to above, the recommendations of the Committee keeping in view
the observations of the C&AG are also being circulated to the user Districts/Units to
take serious note of the same and taking prompt action to ensure effective CCTV
functionality.

                      (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReport
                                                               Dated 30.01.2025)


Vetting comments of Audit

   Ministry may intimate the Committee about the action taken for establishment of
a dedicated task force to expedite joint surveys and settle payments.


                                          (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)


Ministry’s Final Reply

      In addition to Action Taken by Delhi Police, aMaintenance Committee has
been established as per SOP which includes Addl.DCP of the concerned Distt./Unit,
ACP(HQ)/ACP       (Sub-Division)      and     concerned    SHO.All     maintenance/
replacement/repair issues, not attributed to the Vendor (ECIL), are examined by the
concerned Maintenance Committee. Joint surveys are also conducted wherever
considered necessary.


Observation/RecommendationNo. 7

               Recognizing the critical role of the Cyber Crime Unit (CCU) in
addressing evolving digital threats which has in the recent year assumed the status
of spiraling crime including phishing operations leading to the loss of lifetime savings
of the person, the Committee recommend that Delhi Police conduct a detailed
manpower and technical review to ascertain the existing expertise within the CCU as
well as the requirement for technical upgradation. This review should specifically
focus on technical qualifications and experience of personnel. To achieve its aim, if
Delhi Police feels prudent, they can also highlight the shortcomings in the relevant
statutes to the Committee in order to enable the checking of such crimes, which the
Committee shall consider at their second stage of examination of the subject i.e.
while examining the Action Taken Replies to be furnished by MHA at later stage.

        Coming back to the point in question i.e. detailed manpower review and
technical up gradation of posted personnel, the Committee would like to emphasize
that once completed, Delhi Police should formulate and implement a robust
recruitment strategy to address any deficiencies identified during the audit. The audit
should actively monitor the progress of this review and subsequent recruitment,
ensuring that a sufficient number of trained and qualified individuals are added to the
CCU. Additionally, the Committee in no unequivocal terms recommend that regular
monitoring of the disposal rate of cybercrime cases, aiming for an improvement from
                                          21
the current situation, may be undertaken. The Committee further exhort the Ministry
to impress upon Delhi Police to undertake rigorous measures to improve upon the
dismal rate of resolution of cybercrimes and retrieval of the lost monies in phishing
operations.


Action Taken by Ministry

              STRENGTHENING CYBER CRIME UNIT
        To tackle cyber-crimes such as hacking, online fraud, cyber bullying etc. a
        dedicated specialized unit IFSO (Intelligence Fusion & Strategic Operations)
        is functional along with dedicated Cyber Police Stations which have been set
        up in each district in Delhi. Further, Crime Branch is also handling
        complicated cases related to Cyber Crime. To keep a check on rising
        incidents of cyber-crime, following measures have been taken by Delhi
        Police: -

     CYBER SAFETY CAMPAIGNS
           Delhi Police conducts programs at various forums such as at educational
            institutions, RWA/MWA, senior citizens and other stakeholders to educate
            citizens about safe online practices and how to protect themselves from
            cybercrimes.
           Mass public awareness programs are being conducted for citizens on
            safe online practices through social media, electronic and print media.
           Dedicated helplines for reporting Cyber Crimes and receiving guidance
            have been set up.
           Capacity Building and skill upgradation of police personnel/IOs is being
            done through regular specialized training
           Active collaboration with other law enforcement agencies, banks &
            financial institutions, cyber experts etc. is being done.
           Regular monitoring of complaints is being ensured which are lodged on
            national cyber-crime reporting portal.


     TECHNICAL UPGRADATION
       To address challenging Cyber Crime cases, such as AI, deepfake, 5G,
       anonymity tools and converting illicit money into crypto currency, Delhi Police
       is implementing advanced Cyber forensics tools and software to enhance the
       speed and accuracy of investigation. These initiatives include:-
          Establishing a Facial Recognition System.
          Procured UFED (Universal Forensic Extraction Device).
          Procurement of UFED Premium (under process).
          Procurement of IMSI catcher (under process).
          Procurement of Narco detector and identifier (under process).
          Technical Committee approved for procurement of forensic tools e.g.
            Inspector Collector & Magnet.
          Procuring forensic tools for use in district cyber police stations.

                                          22
          Purchasing 60 laptops for use in NCFL.
          Renewing expired licenses of the software for data extraction from
           mobile/cell phones installed in NCFL.
        Renewing expired licenses of the software for the Damaged Hard Disk
           Forensic Lab installed in the Cyber Lab.
        Procuring a Mobile Malware Forensic Facility.
        Procuring crypto currency analysis software.
        Delhi Police officers also being trained as an expert for collection &
         preservation of digital evidence.
        Eleven (11) Cyber Experts have been hired on contract basis, specializing
         in domains such as crypto currency, memory forensics, mobile forensics &
         imaging.

 MANPOWER REVIEW IN CYBER CRIME UNITS
          A manpower review has been conducted for staff posted in IFSO, Crime
           Branch and 15 cyber police stations at the district level. Personnel with
           essential technical and computer skills for detecting cyber-crime have
           been identified.
          Further, NPC has also started manpower audit of Delhi Police on
           17.04.2023. The NPC officials have visited IFSO and 15 Cyber Police
           Stations for assessing the manpower inconsonance with the challenges,
           issues and futuristic need. NPC is expected to submit its report by mid of
           August 2024.
          Twenty-five lower subordinates posted in IFSO and fifteen in district cyber
           police stations, holding B. Tech or computer degrees, are being sent for
           certification courses. These courses are designed to address the latest
           trends in cyber-crime, such as AI, deepfake, 5G challenges, anonymity
           tools, and converting illicit money into crypto currency.
          Twenty-seven cyber experts have been hired on a contract basis,
           specializing in domains such as cloud computing, crypto currency, memory
           forensics, and mobile forensics, to combat Cyber Crime.
          Delhi Police conducts regular training and workshop for investigating
           officers in latest crime trends and investigations techniques.

 HELPLINE 1930.
   Rigorous measures to improve the resolution rate of Cyber Crimes and
    recover lost funds from phishing operations are being implemented by
    strengthening helpline 1930.
   This involves increasing operator numbers, adding additional helplines,
    operating 24/7, and maintaining log books for call records and timings.
   Furthermore, the process for the public to report cyber-crimes has been
    streamlined to ensure prompt responses.
 CYBER EXPERTS CUM CONSULTANTS
   The cyber experts cum consultants are working in the NCFL as per the
    recommendation of I4C, MHA as a source.

 FREEZING OF CHEATED AMOUNT
   During the year 2023, an amount of ₹ 34.21 Crore was put on hold/Frozen.
                                          23
         In the current year, several out-of-the-box methods were used, resulting in
          an amount of ₹ 44.11 Crore being put on hold.


Vetting comments of Audit

Ministry’s reply is silent about the formulation and implementation of recruitment
strategy to address any deficiencies identified during the manpower review. PAC
may be apprised of the same.

                                          (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)

Ministry’s Final Reply

In addition to the Action Taken by Delhi Police, it is apprised that the National
Productivity Council (NPC) has conducted manpower audit and submitted draft
reports. Delhi Police is taking further action in the matter on day-to-day basis. After
finalized the Report by the NPC, recruitment process will be started.


  (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReportDated 30.01.2025)


Observation/Recommendation No. 8

Urgent Formulation of Comprehensive IT Policy:

The Committee emphasize the need for showing urgency in formulating and
implementing a comprehensive IT policy for Delhi Police. The Committee also
recommend that Delhi Police expeditiously finalizes the IT policy, taking into account
the rapidly evolving technology landscape and the specific needs of law
enforcement. The Ministry should obtain regular updates on the progress of the IT
policy's formulation, seeking confirmation on its framing and subsequent
implementation. In this regard, the Committee advocate for the appointment of a
regular Chief Technology Officer (CTO) along with the dedicated staff, aligning with
the sanctioned strength of 52 positions for the IT Cell. Further, the Ministry should
closely scrutinize the progress made in both framing the IT policy and staffing the IT
Cell, ensuring that the IT infrastructure of Delhi Police is modernized and efficiently
managed.

Action Taken by Ministry

       Delhi police is in the process of formulation of a comprehensive IT policy. The
same is being tailored keeping in mind the technological advancement and the
threats to be mitigated. The comprehensive IT policy aims to serve as a guiding
document for outlining the rules, procedures, and best practices governing the use
and management of information technology resources.The proposed IT policy whose
contents are under review covers the details about roles and responsibilities of the
stakeholders and is in line with the Data Protection Act of India. It has key
                                          24
components of access control, security measures, hardware and software
management and protection. It is also covering the topics of social media usage,
training of the personnel and awareness. Above all, it also contemplates the critical
issue of sensitive infrastructure and the process of incident reporting and response.
As this is the new policy for Delhi police the same is being subjected to detailed
analysis, especially in the context of existing guidelines and frameworks. The content
of the same is under review with the specialized vertical (Technology and Project
Implementation) of the Delhi police. Nevertheless, to address the ongoing challenges
and to frame the guidelines Delhi police issues timely guidelines to its personnel
through the Technology and Project Implementation division.

Vetting comments of Audit

       Ministry may intimate the Committee about the timelines for completion of the
formulation of IT policy. Further, Ministry’s reply is silent in respect of the
Committee’s recommendation for the appointment of a regular Chief Technology
Officer along with the dedicated staff for the formulation of IT Policy. PAC may be
intimated about the same.
                                          (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)


Ministry’s final comments:

        Delhi police is in the process of formulation of a comprehensive IT policy. The
draft framework of IT policy has been prepared.The framework and contents of I.T.
Policy is under review with the specialized vertical of Technology and Project
Implementation Division of Delhi Police.
        The proposal for creation of post of Chief Technical Advisor (CTA) isalso
under process.

  (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReportDated 30.01.2025)

                       Comments of the Committee, see Para No. 15 of Chapter I

Observation/Recommendation No. 9

Alignment with the new legislation:

       The Committee note the critical importance of aligning Delhi Police officers
with the new legal landscape, particularly the recently enacted laws (Sanhita). In
this context, the Committee observe the necessity to prioritize training efforts for
officers, urgent need for a comprehensive understanding of the new
'BharatiyaNyay Sanhita' and 'BharatiyaNagrik Suraksha Sanhita'. To adapt to the
legislations under reference, the Committee recommend an intensified training
program, specifically designed to familiarize officers with the intricacies of the
recent laws. Emphasis should be placed on practical aspects, digital aspects, such
as swift recording and digital storage of evidence, and mastering the retrieval of
hash values for electronic evidence, along with the application of forensic science.

Action Taken by Ministry
                                          25
 THE NEW LEGISLATIONS (TRAINING)
    The Training Unit of Delhi Police has prepared training material in the form
     of three books on each of the New Criminal Laws i.e. BNS, BNSS and BSA
     which explains each section of the Act in simple language and also each
     section of the previous Act with corresponding sections in the new Act has
     been tabulated. The new additions have been mentioned separately. The
     Hindi version of these books is also prepared.
    Further, a book on common scenarios which are dealt by police on day-to-
     day basis (20 scenarios like murder, rape, dacoity, snatching etc.) have
     been prepared and circulated. All these books have been well received by
     Stakeholders. Instructional videos on each of these 20 scenarios are also
     being prepared for training purpose. They will also be uploaded on iGoT
     Platform.
    A pocket reference manual has also been prepared for use of IOs.
    Training material and booklet for reference has also been prepared for jail
     officials.
    The details of Master Trainers and number of officers trained by Delhi Police
     on New Criminal Laws is as under: -


    1.      Officers trained by other Institution
            (CDTI, Ghaziabad, CAPT, Bhopal, NLU, Delhi, NCRB,            2,349
            Delhi and NFSU, Delhi)
  2.        No. of Master Trainers Trained                               65
  3.        Phase-I – Ct. to Inspr. of Distts. and Investigating Units   6,645
  4.        Naib Court & Prosecution Staff                               769
  5.        ACsP                                                         245
  6.        Addl. DCsP/DCsP                                              81
            Total                                                        10,154
  7.        Phase-II – Potential IOs & left over IOs, 8 batch completed  4,777
  8.        Special course on New Criminal Law viz. Videography and
                                                                         46
            Photography (NICFS, NFSU Delhi Campus, Rohini, Delhi)
            Total                                                        4,823
  9.        PHASE-III - Ongoing Training
            Decentralised Training at 26 Subsidiary Training Units
            (STU) – provided with training PPTs/videos/reference aid     31,561
            materials
            31561 all ranks posted in various Distt/Unit
  10.       Trainees in DPA                                              5,204
            Total                                                        36,765
            Grand Total                                                  51,742
 Besides, Delhi Police Personnel, the following officers of other Departments
  are also got trained by Delhi Police in New Criminal Laws:

                                                                       Number of
    Sl. No.                   Detail of Course
                                                                       Participants
    1.        Metropolitan Magistrate                             94
                                        26
         2.        Master Trainer of Distts./Investigating Units of
                   PHASE-I, Arunachal Pradesh Police at                 45
                   Auditorium PS Barakhamba
         3.        Legal Consultant attached with Delhi Police at
                                                                        21
                   STC, Rajendra Nagar
         4.        Officers of Forensic Science Laboratory at STC,
                                                                        25
                   Rajendra Nagar
                                                              Total     185

      The above courses on New Criminal Laws also include the use of e-Praman,
       the new app designed for collection of digital evince under new laws. The
       upgrades in ICSS/CCTNS are being addressed by Crime Branch and the
       same is included in the New Criminal Laws training by Delhi Police Academy.

  ALIGNMENT WITH THE NEW LEGISLATIONS:

         An App by the name of e-Pramaan has been developed by Delhi Police.
          The App will ensure that the authenticity and integrity of the evidence is
          maintained. It also generates Section 63, BSA Certificate of the
          evidence with the evidence details. It will be integrated with CCTNS and
          sharing of the details with the court will be done automatically through
          ICJS. Also the App generates a media URL and decryption key for each
          evidence for viewing.

 UPGRADATION Of CCTNS AND ICJS :

 •   The three new criminal legislations (BNS, BNSS & BSA) have been
     implemented in NCT, Delhi successfully w.e.f 01.07.2024. All the preparations
     with regard to upgradation of existing infrastructure and capacity building of
     police officers were planned well in advance and completed successfully.

 •   Upgradation of CCTNS, to make it conform to the provisions of new criminal
     legislation, was undertaken with the assistance of NCRB which had provided 20
     patches customized by the technical team of System Integrator and core team
     of CCTNS, Delhi Police and was further got tested through field officer by
     registering test FIRs.

 •   For capacity building of police officers, special training programs were
     conducted and about 7000 core group-CCTNS operators were imparted training
     regarding use of CCTNS application. After completions of customization and
     debugging process, all patches have been implemented successfully and
     upgraded CCTNS is working properly and being used for the purpose of
     registration of FIRs and other activities relating to investigation.

 •   For technical support to the field officers, to deal with any emergent
     situation/glitch, technical teams have been deployed at Data Centre, Delhi
     Police round the clock for the period from 01.07.24 to 15.07.24. A request for
     similar arrangements has been made to NCRB, NIC and ICJS - Inter Operable
     Criminal Justice System. Under ICJS five pillars of criminal justice system i.e.
                                            27
      Police, Court, Prosecution Branch, FSL and Prisons have been brought under
      one umbrella by integrating their respective modules on one platform for the
      purpose of consumption of data by respective pillars on real time basis.

 •    Integrated Modules are being used by the officers for the search and data
      consumption purpose. However, some issues have been observed regarding
      use of these modules. These issues have been listed and shared with the
      Nodal Officers of respective pillars as well as NIC team who is looking after the
      integration. Our technical team in consultation with respective nodal officer and
      NIC is working hard to resolve these issues. Delhi Police is the nodal unit of
      GNCT, Delhi for implementation of ICJS. NCRB had asked State Action Plan
      regarding infrastructure and connectivity which has been submitted to NCRB
      after collecting details from all the pillars.

 •    Delhi police is participating in workshop being organized on addressing
      challenges in the implementation of the new Criminal Laws on 13th July, 2024,
      at Delhi Judicial Academy with Ld. Higher Judicial officer and Chief Metropolitan
      Magistrates


Vetting comments of Audit

No further comments, in view of the action taken.

                                          (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)

Ministry’s Final Comments

In addition to the above Action Taken,technical teams were deployed round the clock
at CCTNS Data Centre, to apprise the field officers about the changes in the laws
and the implication thereof in CCTNS application and about the newly launched
Mobile Applications like ePramaan and eSakshya etc.

     (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP(Part-1) (E-3556225)/140 thReportDated 30.01.2025)


Observation/Recommendation No. 10

The Committee note with appreciation the steps taken by the Ministry of Home
Affairs and Delhi Police in addressing the shortcomings vis-à-vis recruitments in
Delhi Police. The Committee also take note of the recent recruitment of 10,900
personnel for meeting sanctioned manpower requirements. However, the existing
shortage of 3,000 personnel necessitates concerted efforts in the upcoming 2024
recruitment drive, prompting the Committee to recommend an enhanced
collaboration with Staff Selection Commission to streamline the process further. The
Committee, however, note that the existing strength of police personnel with respect
to the present population of Delhi is abysmally low and needs a review. The
Committee, therefore, recommend that the Ministry reassess the required strength
of personnel in Delhi Police and take proactive steps to fulfill the requirements after
an on-ground study of the same.
                                          28
Action Taken by Ministry

       It was a great achievement that Delhi Police recruited more than 10,000
police personnel successfully in a very short span of time. Most of them were issued
offer of appointment during 12th Tranche. All of them are either undergoing training
or successfully passed out after proper training and they are serving in Delhi Police.
Out of these recently recruited police personnel, 31% were women police personnel.
Except these, there are 840 vacancies for Group ‘C’ which have been communicated
to SSC for conducting Examination. The process has been started and they will be
recruited in Delhi Police by the end of this year. There are 2,993 vacancies which will
be communicated to SSC shortly. Out of these, 450 vacancies will be reserved for
women, and the recruitment process is being done with coordination with the SSC
which is the recruiting agency for the Delhi Police. The break-up of 2,993 vacancies
is as under: -


       Sl.    Name of Post                                       Vacancy
       No.
        1.    Constable(Exe.)-Male/Female                       917
        2.    Ct.(Driver)                                       290
        3.    Ct.(Band)                                         44
        4.    Ct(Dog handler)                                   43
        5.    Ct.(Mounted)                                      35
        6.    Ct.(Photographer)                                 43
        7.    Ct.(Bugler)                                       11
        8.    Ct./MT                                            134
        9.    HC(AWO/TPO) Male/Female                           127
        10.   HC(Fitter Battery)                                06
        11.   HC(Fitter Electrician)                            42
        12.   HC(Store clerk)                                   04
        13.   HC(Mast Lasker)                                   05
        14.   HC(Carpenter)                                     01
        15.   HC(Draftsman)                                     01
        16.   HC(TEO)                                           09
        17.   HC(MT)                                            106
        18.   MTS                                               840
        19.   Civilian                                          09
        20.   HC(Min)-Male/Female                               222
        21.   SI(Exe)-Male/Female                               61
        22.   SI(Draftsman)                                     01
        23.   SI(Computer)                                      01
        24.   ASI(Radio Technician)                             06
        25.   ASI(Stenographer)-Male/Female                     05
        26.   ASI(Finger Print Bureau)-Male/Female              30
              Total                                             2,993


                                          29
      Further, to address the shortcomings vis-à-vis recruitments in Delhi Police,
the NPC has started manpower audit of Delhi Police on 17.04.2023 which is
expected to submit its report by mid of August 2024.

         Sincere efforts are being made to get the proposal of 6,991 sanctioned
expeditiously which will include 33% reservation for women in direct recruitment
quota. The proposal is under consideration in the Ministry of Finance. After receipt of
new sanction, the recruitment process will be initiated at the earliest possible dates
to fill up the vacancies in a time bound manner.


Vetting comments of Audit

      PAC may be apprised of the status and timelines of the recruitment process of
3,833 (840+2,993) vacancies and findings of the Report of the National Productivity
Council and action taken thereon.

                                          (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)


Ministry’s Final Comments

        At present, total 8,510 vacancies have calculated upto 31.12.2025 for the
various posts, for filling up through direct recruitment. Out of these vacancies, 3,833
(840+2,993) vacancies had been calculated upto 31.12.2024 and were conveyed to
the SSC. Thereafter 7,602 vacancies have been calculated upto 31.12.2025
(including 3,833 vacancies) and conveyed to SSC. Remaining vacancies will be
conveyed to SSC shortly except 149 vacancies to be filled by Delhi Police itself. The
detail status of 8,510 vacancies is as under:-

SI. No. Recruitment Status                                                           Vacancies

1.       Ongoing Recruitment. Final Result will be announced by SSC soon.            356
2.       Tentative examination calendar has been issued by SSC for                   6,558
         advertisement
3.       Tentative examination calendar is to be issued by SSC for                   1,044
         advertisement shortly.
4.       Vacancies of SI(Exe.) to be conveyed to SSC whenever SSC ask.               75
5.       Isolated posts to be conveyed to SSC shortly.                               328
6.       Vacancies of CT’s (Bandsmen/Bugler/Mounted/Dog Handler) to be               149
         filled by Delhi Police itself.
         Total                                                                       8,510


     The calendar for recruitment of 8,510 vacancies is given as Annexure “A”
below:




                                          30
                                                     Annexure “A’’
                    STAFF SELECTION COMMISSION
     TENTATIVE CALENDAR OF EXAMINATIONS FOR THE YEAR 2025-2026

S.   Name of Examination         Tier/Phase        Date       of Closing date   Date/Month
No                                                 Advt.                        of Exam
.
1    Sub-Inspector in Delhi      Paper-            16-May-       14-Jun-2025    Jul-
     Police and Central          I(CBE)*           2025          (Saturday)     Aug,2025
     Armed             Police                      (Friday)
     ForcesExamination,20
     25
2    Multi Tasking (Non-         CBE*              26-Jun-       25-Jul-2025    Sep-
     Technical)Staff,     and                      2025          (Friday)       Oct,2025
     Havaldar          (CBIC                       (Thursday)
     &CBN)Examination-
     2025
3    Constable (Executive)       CBE*              02-Sep-       01-Oct-2025    Nov-
     Male and Female in                            2025          (Wednesday)    Dec,2025
     Delhi                                         (Tuesday)
     PoliceExamination,20
     25
4    Constable       (Driver)-   CBE*              19-Sep-       12-Oct-2025    Nov-
     Male in Delhi Police                          2025          (Sunday)       Dec,2025
     Examination, 2025                             (Friday)
5    Head           Constable    CBE*              07-0ct-       05-Nov-2025    Dec,2025-
     (Ministerial)                                 2025          (Wednesday)    Jan,2026
     inDelhiPoliceExaminat                         (Tuesday)
     ion,2025
6    Head           Constable    CBE*              14-Oct-       06-Nov-2025    Dec,2025-
     {Assistant      Wireless                      2025          (Thursday)     Jan,2026
     Operator(AWO)/Tele-                           (Tuesday)
     Printer         Operator
     (TPO)}       in    Delhi
     PoliceExamination,20
     25

       Further, the draft report of the National Productivity Council is under scrutiny
in Delhi Police.
   (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReportDated 30.01.2025)


Observation/RecommendationNo. 11

In logistics management, the Committee acknowledge the Delhi Police’s dynamic
response, particularly in the procurement of 1,000 vehicles prompted by the G20
Summit. While taking note of this fact, the Committee recommend a sustained effort

                                              31
in regularly condemning vehicles to uphold fleet efficiency and security
readiness.The Committee also observe the need for continuous improvements in
the communication infrastructure, particularly in the commissioning of the Digital
Trunking Radio System. While recognizing the challenges faced by Delhi Police in
securing adequate bidders, the Committee recommend a strategic approach to
attract more participants and maintain competitive procurement processes.

Action Taken by Ministry

       The mechanisms for the assessment of requirements of vehicles are in place
and assessments are held at regular intervals. In order to ascertain the overall
requirement of vehicles of various units of Delhi Police request was made to BPR&D
through MHA to conduct a comprehensive study for assessment of requirement of
vehicles for Delhi Police. The BPR&D after conducting detailed study, finalized its
report and submitted the same to MHA vide letter dated 06.11.2018. MHA vide letter
dated 11.03.2020, conveyed approval of the competent authority based on the
BPR&D recommendations for authorization of 10,997 vehicles (6,553 existing
vehicles and 4,444 additional vehicles) to Delhi Police. The requirement of vehicles
for Delhi Police as per the recommendations of BPR&D and approved/authorized by
MHA is 10,997 Vehicles.

      Out of these 4,444 vehicles, expenditure Sanction for 3,494 vehicles have
been accorded to Delhi Police from time to time as sought by Delhi Police. Out of
these 3,494 vehicles, 3,316 vehicles have been procured and procurement of 07
Mob/riot control Vehicles, 163 Tata Yodha, 04 hearse Vans and 04 Water Cannons
are under process in Delhi Police. The procurement of the remaining vehicles will be
completed as per requirement of Delhi Police.

The comparison of the actual holding of vehicles with the sanctioned requirement is
as under:

  SL.       Type of              Sanctioned            Present Holding
  No.       Vehicles            requirement              of Vehicles           Shortfall/
                              /authorization of                                 Excess
                            vehicles by MHA for
                                Delhi Police
   1.         LMVs                 3,956                     3,339               -617
   2.    Two Wheelers              5,526                     5,531               +05
   3.    Bus/Mini Bus               451                       372                 -79
   4.      Truck/Mini               557                       287                -270
             trucks/
         Troop Carrier
   5.      Crime Van                 22                        19                 -03
   6.     Hearse Van                  20                       17                 -03
   7.        Crane                   126                       34                 -92
   8.    Water Cannon                 14                       10                 -04
   9.    Water Tanker                 12                       12                  --
   10.    Scientific Aid              14                       14                  --
            Vehicle
                                        32
11.    BP LMVs                 59                    57                          -02
12.    BP LATC                 21                    03                          -18
13.  BP Mini Bus               02                    00                          -02
14.   Vajra/Mob                35                    28                          -07
    Control Vehicle
15.    Jail Vans              140                   139                          -01
16. Exhibition Van             05                    03                          -02
17.       TSR                  03                    02                          -01
18.   Interceptor              24                    24                           00
19.  Disaster Van              06                    03                          -03
20.     Security               04                    04                           00
    X-ray Baggage
    Total                   10,997                 9,898                        1,099
  CIMS (Computerized Inventory Management System)

     In order to undertake logistics and inventory management, M/s BISAG-N,
      Gujarat has been awarded the contract to develop the following 06 inventory
      management modules for Delhi Police: -

        S. No. Module Name
        1.       Motor Transport (MT) Module
        2.       KOT Module
        4.       POL Module (Petrol Pump)
        3.       Central Supply Agency (CSA) Module
        5.       Communication Equipment (CEM) Module
        6.       Hiring Module
     03 Modules i.e. Motor Transport Module (MT), KOT module and Petrol Pump
      Module are likely to be developed within next 15 days. The initial framework
      of remaining 03 Modules has been completed and their development is in
      progress with user interaction.

 DTRS (Digital Trunking Radio System)
         The Existing Digital Trunk Radio System of Delhi Police was installed in
          December, 1999 to provide communication all over Delhi.
         In order to ensure participation of adequate number of bidders,technology
          neutral tender for the procurement of Open Standard Digital Trunking
          Radio System was invited on Central Public Procurement (CPP) Portal on
          25.06.2022.
         Only 01 firm M/s. Mobile Communication India Pvt. Ltd., Delhi has
          participated in the said tender.
         The Technical evaluation of the system offered by the firm has been
          completed and approvals of Independent Technical Committee
          constituted by MHA vide order No. 14026/37/2011-UTP/GOI/MHA, dated
          01.06.2021 has also been received on 19.06.2024.
         The further action is being taken.

 STUDY OF ASSETS MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
         The National Productivity Council (NPC) has started a study on Assets
                                        33
          Management        Practices   (moveable,   immovable   as  well  as
          technical/intangible assets) of Delhi Police on 17.04.2023 which will
          submit its report by mid of August, 2024.

  (F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReportDated 30.01.2025)


Vetting comments of Audit

PAC may be intimated about the status of –
  a) procurement of the remaining different vehicles;
  b) development of 06 inventory management modules for Delhi Police; and
  c) the procurement of Open Standard Digital Trunking Radio System.

                                        (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE: 27/09/2024)




Ministry’s Final Comments

a) Out of new authorization of 4,444 vehicles, 4106 have been procured asunder:-
   Sl.     Type       of Vehicles       Vehicles        Balance to Remarks
   No. Vehicle            authorized procured           be
                          by      MHA under fresh procured
                          vide leter authorization
                          dated
                          11.03.2020
       1. LMVs               1,863           1863             0      Complete
       2. Two Wheelers       1,874           1874             0      Complete
       3. Bus                   9              0             09      Will be
                                                                     procured as
                                                                     per
                                                                     requirement
       4. Mini Bus            246             100           146      Will be
                                                                     procured as
                                                                     per
                                                                     requirement
       5. Truck                02              02            0       Complete
       6. Mini                 69              30           39       Will be
          trucks/Troop                                               procured as
          Carrier                                                    per
                                                                     requirement
       7. Pickup              163             163             0      Complete
       8. Crime Van             6              0             06      30      Mobile
                                                                     Forensic Van
                                                                     have     been
                                                                     procured,
                                                                     hence,
                                                                     proposal
                                        34
                                        could not be
                                        processed.
9. Hearse Van       4         4    0    Complete
10.Ambulance        1         0    01   Paramedical
                                        staff       not
                                        recruited    in
                                        Delhi Police
                                        or       hired,
                                        hence,
                                        proposal
                                        could not be
                                        processed
11.Crane            92        0    92   Tender under
                                        process
12.Water            4         4    0    Complete
   Cannon
13.Water Tanker     6         2    04   Will be
                                        procured as
                                        per
                                        requirement
14.Scientific Aid   14        14   0    Complete
   Vehicle
15.BP LMVs          13        0    13   Will be
                                        procured as
                                        per
                                        requirement
16.BP LATC          18        0    18   Will be
                                        procured as
                                        per
                                        requirement
17.BP Mini Bus      2         0    02   Tender under
                                        process
18.Vajra / Mob      12        10   02   10 Nos. Mob
   Control                              Riot Control
   Vehicle                              Vehicles have
                                        been
                                        procured.
19.Jail Vans        40        40   0    Complete
20.Exhibition Van   4         0    04   Will be
                                        procured as
                                        per
                                        requirement
21.TSR/Tempo        2         0    2    TSR is not
                                        required    in
                                        Delhi Police,
                                        hence, Mini
                                        Truck against
                                        the same will
                                        be procured
                         35
                                                                           as        per
                                                                           requirement.
         Total             4,444           4,106        338
      As regard of procurement of the remaining 338 Nos. vehicles, the same will
be completed as per requirement of Delhi Police.

b) 03 modules are being tested by all Districts/Units by feeding their genuine data.
02 modules i.e. Central Supply Agency (CSA) and Communication Equipment
(CEM) are under development stage and likely to be ready by mid of February, 2025.
The development of remaining Hiring Module will be started in 4th week of January
2025.

c)The price bid of qualified firm M/s Mobile Communication India Ltd. Delhi was opened
on 27.08.2024 for supply, installation and commissioning of open standard Digital
Trunking Radio System for use in Delhi Police and it was found that the firm has quoted
total cost of ₹185 Crore (including taxes) against the estimated cost of ₹120 Crore
(including taxes). The Committee observed that the rates offered by the firm are on
higher side. Delhi Police is examining for negotiation with the contractual firm, as per
recommendation of the Purchase Committee.


Observation/RecommendationNo. 12

The Committee are of the opinion that it is imperative for the Delhi Police to stay
abreast with technological advancements and integration of new systems like the
smart city project. The Committee desire a proactive approach by Delhi Police and
technology upgrades for ensuring the longevity and compatibility of existing
infrastructure. The Committee also emphasize the significance of fostering a
continuous improvement culture within the Delhi Police. Promptly addressing
challenges and updating procedures based on lessons learnt is recommended to
further enhance security and law enforcement capabilities.

Action Taken by Ministry

In order to ensure technical up gradation of Delhi Police, monthly Brainstorming
Sessions are conducted for Tech-Hunt. These sessions aim to identify technology-
based solutions that can enhance the security and law enforcement capabilities of
Delhi Police. The shortlisted solutions are then referred to the relevant verticals for
further scrutiny, considering the feasibility and utility of the projects within the Delhi
Police.

 HACKATHONS

       Delhi Police is in process to conduct a Hackathon – 2024. For conducting a
       hackathon by Delhi Police, the Tech. & PI Division has sought problem
       statements from all verticals of Delhi Police. Further, requests to around 130
       technology-based institutions of repute in India have been made for seeking
       their Expression of Interest (EOI) in collaborating with Delhi Police for
                                           36
      conducting the Hackathon. Responses received from these educational
      institutions/research organizations are under examination for further
      conducting the Hackathon-2024.

 BRAIN-STORMING SESSION FOR TECH HUNT
     To ensure the technical upgradation of Delhi Police, monthly Brainstorming
      Sessions for Tech-Hunt are conducted. These sessions aim to identify
      technology-based solutions that can enhance the security and law
      enforcement capabilities of Delhi Police. This initiative was started in October
      2023, and till now 6 such Brain-Storming sessions for Tech Hunt have been
      conducted.
     During these sessions multiple solutions were presented by the technology-
      based solution providers. Out of which 34 shortlisted solutions were referred
      to the relevant verticals for further scrutiny, considering the feasibility and
      utility of the projects within the Delhi Police. The details of the shortlisted
      technology-based solutions referred to various verticals are as under: -
        S. Tech Hunt          Sl.     Gist of solution and mechanisms to counter problems
        No.                   No.
       1.     1st dt.        1.    Counter Drone Systems, available in portable as well as
              05.10.23             vehicle mounted configuration.
                             2.    Communication based on Quantum technology providing
                                   End-to-End Safe Messaging and Video Conferencing
                                   Solution.
                             3.    Digitalize Redressal Systems and develop unique digital
                                   solution. Preliminary Inquiry Management System with
                                   Data Analytics AI Integration, online challan System,
                                   Litigation Management system with AI tools.
                             4.    Raven-AI, a threat detection program-based on AI. It can
                                   track a spectrum of incidents including accidents,
                                   altercations, riots, chain snatchings, vandalism and traffic
                                   disruptions etc.
       2.     2nd Tech       5.    Cyber Security Solutions to prevent cyber-attacks by
              Hunt, dt.            detecting suspicious activities and potential threats in real
              09.11.23             time systems. Also deals with Secure Network
                                   Management and Document Management System.
                                   Products: Event Shield, MCTEMS, MCT Authenticator,
                                   MCTNMS, MCTXDR, MapleDoc, MCT Email Gateway,
                                   MapLog
                             6.    Software solution providing Cyber Forensics Services like
                                   social media data mining and graph visualization platform
                                   which can help in intelligence gathering and crime
                                   prevention.
                                   Product: OSINT Solutions, Maltego
                             7.    UNIFIED video management systems, AI based video
                                   analytics systems with multiple used cases & dashboards
                             8.    A digital solution to re-engineer manual process of police
                                   verification through Facial recognition and AI-ML.
                                   Product: Helloverify

                                         37
                 9.    Artificial Intelligence based crime analytics and prediction
                       solution which can improve police operation efficiency
                       and decision support.
                       Product: SAS
                 10.   Enable citizen services over WhatsApp with a
                       combination of automated responses, plus option for
                       manual intervention by Delhi Police’s citizen services
                       team.
                 11.   A digital evidence management system which can collect,
                       analyze and share evidence.
                       Product: NICE Investigate.
                 12.   Facial recognition technology& other AI Solutions.
                       Product: Facechk
                 13.   Latent fingerprint enhancement using generative
                       adversarial networks - Improving fingerprint matching
                       performance of poor-quality fingerprints, including latent
                       fingerprints
3.   3rd Tech    14.   Company is the OEM for various enterprise management,
     Hunt, dt.         cyber security, and productivity systems/products, useful
     07.12.23          for data center in smart city and safe city projects.
                 15.   Company provides state of the art technology for digital
                       assets archival which helps to store large data/Media for
                       long duration.
                 16.   Company provides face recognition technology software
                       with crowd analytics.

                 17.   Company provides tool/ services/training in the domain of
                       digital forensic. Company has also the expertise in setting
                       up of digital forensic labs for Crypto currency forensics,
                       Disk forensic & data extraction,
                       Mobile forensics and cloud forensics.
                 18.   i-Omniscient is an Ethical AI Company which offers multi-
                       sensory (video-sound-smell) Artificial Intelligence based
                       analytics for Autonomous systems like face recognition,
                       business analytics, traffic management etc.
                 19.   Company has the expertise in designing building and
                       operating large scale Hyper Density Data Centre and
                       Edge Data Centers.
                 20.   Company has the expertise in cyber security technologies
                       leveraging AI & ML to prevent modern threats.
4.   4th Tech    21.   Company provides digital products and solutions like cell
     Hunt, dt.         site analyser-a hardware product used for identification of
     10.01.24          cell towers and identification of unidentified interception
                       devices, CDR IPDR analysis software, crime investigation
                       platform.
                 22.   Company provides a support environment for running and
                       integrating multiple digital solutions with AI technology in
                       an efficient manner.
                 23.   Company is specialized in aligning police department
                              38
                       needs with judicial procedure through automation. They
                       also provide tool to Aid law enforcement by offering
                       alerts, search functionalities, and analytical support
                       through the judicial process, including an AI based
                       acquittal analysis.
                 24.   Company provides a product LTA-UAVs called hybrid air-
                       clean technologies that enable to capture high resolution
                       images, perform real time monitoring and detect
                       suspicious activity in both urban and rural areas. It can be
                       used to enhance airport security, traffic monitoring etc.
5.   5th Tech    25.   Predictive policing app for Delhi Police which can analyze
     Hunt, dt.         crime trends and patterns including criminal behaviour.
     04.03.24
                       Police GPT app for Delhi Police that will facilitate citizen
                       and police to access law related information.
                 26.   Company proposed to run a pilot program aimed at
                       facilitating the Quick Challan recovery with Park+ mobile
                       application.
                 27.   Company provides logistics Drone and Software for
                       Drone Control, Automation, Drone Fleet management
                       and Un-manned Traffic Management System.
                 28.   Company provides fleet management system for
                       businesses of all scales with innovative technology tools.
6.   6th Tech    29.   Manthan, a digital platform initiative which facilitates calls
     Hunt, dt.         for early innovation/ industry R&D/innovation challenges/
     18.04.24          mentorship programs and other science and technology
                       interventions It aims to empower various stakeholders to
                       scale up the interactions with researchers/ innovators and
                       facilitate R&D/innovation, share challenges focused on
                       emerging technologies, other scientific interventions, as
                       well as those with a social impact.
                 30.   Quixy, a flagship product of the company, harnesses the
                       power of No Code-Low Code Technology. The platform
                       can be used to develop various applications with minimal
                       coding.
                 31.   Company provides IT related services like Website
                       Development, Mobile Application, ERP/HRMS/CRM,
                       Operations Management Software, Digital Marketing, AI
                       and Chat Bot etc.
                 32.   Company provides a solution to detect and prevent
                       Deepfake with pioneering forensic AI.
                 33.   Company provides drones which are capable of flying
                       upto 12 Hrs in any condition and can monitor the location
                       up to 3 to 5 kms with their EO and thermal cameras.
                 34.   Company provides Tejis.AI, an AI platform catering to
                       police and intelligence agencies with the emphasis on
                       data extraction, elastic search engine, vector database,
                       LLM and knowledge graph.

                              39
 SPECIAL TECH.-HUNT
   Tech. & PI Division has also conducted a Special Tech.-Hunt, wherein
    participants of previous hackathons still willing to join hands with Delhi Police
    for further development of their solution, were invited. The Special Tech.-Hunt
    was conducted on 18.06.2024 and a total of 15 teams/their representatives
    with different technology-based solution participated in the Special Tech.-Hunt
    and their presentations/demonstrations were reviewed by the officers of Delhi
    Police and members of the committee. The solutions provided by the
    participant teams were examined by the committee members in detail and 8
    solutions were shortlisted for further collaboration and incubation.
   The details of the shortlisted technology-based solutions are as follows: -
     Sl.       Problem Statement                            Solution/Idea Evolved
     No
     1. To monitor real time traffic Smart Traffic signals: Controller System for remote
           and control the signals         monitoring
     2. Detection and prevention SafeRoad AI: Advanced Accident Detection and
           of road accidents               Prevention System by networking of cameras with
                                           AI algorithms to analyze vehicle movements,
                                           Pattern Recognition, Thermal Imaging-Optional,
                                           Visual Smoke and Fire Detection.
     3. Effective           Surveillance Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning for Smart
           System                          Policing using AI/ML for Image and Video Analysis,
                                           Visual Network Analysis, Geo-Spatial Analysis,
                                           Temporal Analysis for Smart policing.
     4. Crime pattern analysis Predictive Policing - a digital solution featuring use
           and Predictive Policing         of AI & ML tools on crime data of past years to
                                           predict the most probable grid locations with time
                                           for street crimes such as snatching, robbery,
                                           burglary etc. With the help of the solution, Data
                                           Driven Patrolling plan may be formulated based on
                                           recommendations of the software
     5. Effective           Surveillance Surveillance System - AI based software solution
           System                          for autonomous road surveillance from live feed of
                                           CCTV cameras
     6. To         identify     potential Video analytics platform which maps live video
           security threats from live feeds from existing surveillance infrastructure in
           feeds, traffic management real-time. It proactively identifies potential security
           and crowd management            threats, allowing for rapid responses. From traffic
                                           management to crowd management
     7. Management                      of Delhi Police Distress Response Semi-Automation
           emergency                 calls Solutions
           effectively
     8. Automatic          identification, Medical grade, non-invasive, wearable systems to
           processing                 and quantify insights from the human mind: - An AI-
           management of blank based solution called MNu for the automatic
           calls.                          identification, processing and management of
                                           blank calls to cater to the specific needs of Delhi
                                           Police, it can also detect silence, blacklist repeated
                                           fraudulent callers, identify specific words and
                                         40
                                         sentences used by such callers, locating source/
                                         geographies of call and so on and can give a
                                         distress rating based on AI-based predictions.

 NEW IDEAS EVOLVED TO COUNTER PROBLEMS FACED BY DELHI
   POLICE
  1. CHAT GPT LIKE SOLUTION FOR DELHI POLICE
   In alignment with the Digital India Mission and Police Technology Mission,
     Delhi Police is transitioning its service delivery from physical to digital
     platforms to broaden its reach and improve public engagement. To enhance
     accessibility and service capabilities through modern technology, the Tech. &
     PI Division has initiated the development of a ChatGPT-type chatbot solution
     tailored specifically for the needs of Delhi Police.
   As a preliminary step, the Tech. & PI Division at PHQ identified major issues
     across all verticals that involve queries from the public and police personnel.
     DCsP of all districts and units were asked to review these identified issues
     and compile a minimum of 100 frequently asked questions (FAQs) with
     appropriate answers. These answers were to include references to relevant
     Standing Orders, Circulars, Notifications, and URL links where necessary.
   To ensure accuracy, thirty-six officers were assigned to verify and cross-
     check the sample FAQs submitted by the districts and units. This thorough
     review process aims to prepare the FAQs for the pilot launch of the AI-based
     chatbot solution.
   Further, the Tech. & PI Division is collaborating with IIT Delhi, the academia
     partner of Delhi Police, to develop this ChatGPT-type solution, leveraging
     their expertise in artificial intelligence and technology.
2. VEHICLE MOUNTED POLE-BASED CCTV SYSTEM

    To address the challenge of real-time crowd monitoring during processions
     and gatherings in narrow or congested spaces, the Tech. & PI Division
     initiated the development of a Vehicle Mounted Pole-Based CCTV System
     on an e-Rickshaw. This innovative prototype is capable of transmitting live
     video feeds to any state-of-the-art Command/Control Room, enhancing
     situational awareness and response capabilities.
    Building on the success of this initial prototype, a similar system is now being
     developed on an SUV by Delhi Police. This upgraded version aims to provide
     greater mobility and coverage, further improving the effectiveness of crowd
     monitoring and management in various scenarios.

3. ANALYTIC AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TOOL

    During the 4th Brain Storming Session for Tech-Hunt, Legitquest Global
     Services Pvt. Ltd. presented an Analytic and Artificial Intelligence Tool
     designed to assist law enforcement agencies. This tool offers alerts, search
     functionalities, and analytical support throughout the judicial process,
     including AI-based acquittal analysis.
    Effectiveness of this tool is being evaluated to assess its suitability for
     implementation within Delhi Police. The focus is to determine how well it aids
     investigating officers by providing alerts, search functionalities, and analytical
                                         41
      support, particularly through AI-based acquittal analysis.


Vetting comments of Audit

No further comments, in view of the action taken.
                                         (R.R./15-9/2024-25/230 DATE:27/09/2024)


Ministry’s Final Comments

As mentioned in the Action Taken, above.

(F. NO. 14014/22/2018-UTP (Part-1) (E-3556225)/140thReport Dated 30.01.2025)



                                     ********




                                         42
                      CHAPTER III

OBSERVATIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH THE COMMITTEE DO NOT
 DESIRE TO PURSUE IN VIEW OF THE REPLIES RECEIVED FROM THE
                        GOVERNMENT



                           NIL




                            43
                        CHAPTER IV

OBSERVATIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS IN RESPECT OF WHICH REPLIES OF
THE GOVERNMENT HAVE NOT BEEN ACCEPTED BY THE COMMITTEE AND
                WHICH REQUIRE REITERATION

                            NIL




                            44
                           CHAPTER V

       OBSERVATIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS IN RESPECT OF WHICH
      GOVERNMENT HAVE FURNISHED INTERIM REPLIES/NO REPLIES

                              NIL




NEW DELHI;                                       K C VENUGOPAL
25 July, 2025                                        Chairperson,
03 Sravana, 1947 (Saka)                Public Accounts Committee




                               45
                                                                      APPENDIX-I

MINUTES OF THE EIGHTH SITTING OF THE PUBLIC ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE
(2025-26) HELD ON 25 JULY, 2025

The Public Accounts Committee sat on Friday, 25 July, 2025 from 1500 hrs to 1515
hrs in Committee Room No. 53, Samvidhan Sadan, New Delhi.

PRESENT

             Dr. Nishikant Dubey-Acting Chairperson

LOK SABHA

2. Shri Jai Prakash
3. Dr. C.M. Ramesh
4. Smt. Aparajita Sarangi
5. Dr. Amar Singh
6. Shri Jagdambika Pal
7. Shri Magunta Sreenivasulu Reddy

RAJYA SABHA

8. Shri Shaktisinh Gohil
9. Dr. K. Laxman
10. Dr. Sudhanshu Trivedi

LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT

1. Shri H. Ram Prakash            -     Joint Secretary
2. Smt. Archna Pathania           -     Director
3. Shri Alok Mani Tripathi -      Deputy Secretary
4. Shri Pankaj Sharma             -     Deputy Secretary
5. Smt. Malvika Mehta             -     Deputy Secretary
6. Dr. Faiz Ahmad                 -     Deputy Secretary


REPRESENTATIVES FROM OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR
GENERAL OF INDIA

Sl. No.   Name                           Designation

   1.     Ms. Smita S. Chaudhri          Dy. Comptroller & Auditor General
   2.     Ms. Gurveen Sidhu              Director General
   3.     Ms. Ritu Dhillon               Director General
   4.     Shri Deen Dayal Verma          Principal Director of Audit (Navy)


                                        46
       The Hon’ble Chairperson could not attend the Sitting. As per Rule 258 (3),
the Members present elected Dr. Nishikant Dubey as the Acting Chairperson.
Thereafter, Hon’ble Chairperson welcomed the Members and the officials of the
Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (C&AG) to the Sitting of the
Committee. Then, the following four draft Reports were taken up for consideration:-

  i.    Action Taken Report on the 84th Report (17th Lok Sabha) on the subject
        “Misappropriation of Public Money in Department of Posts”;

  ii.   Action Taken Report on the 86th Report (17th Lok Sabha) on the subject
        “Establishment and Operationalisation of Sagar Prahari Bal”;

 iii.   Action Taken Report on the 89th Report (17th Lok Sabha) on the subject
        “Indo-Nepal Border Road Project”; and

 iv.    Action Taken Report on the 140th Report (17th Lok Sabha) on the subject
        “Manpower and Logistics Management in Delhi Police”.


3.    After some deliberations, the Committee adopted all the aforesaid Draft
Reports without any modifications and authorized the Chairperson to finalize the
Reports and present the same to the House.



                         The Committee then adjourned.
        A copy of the proceedings of the Sitting has been kept on record.




                                        47
                                         APPENDIX-II
                               (Vide Paragraph 5 of Introduction)

         ANALYSIS OF THE ACTION TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT ON THE
         OBSERVATIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
        COMMITTEE CONTAINED IN THEIR ONE HUNDRED FORTIETH REPORT
                        (SEVENTEENTH LOK SABHA)


(i)       Total number of Observations/Recommendations               12


(ii)      Observations/Recommendations of the Committee             Total:12
          which have been accepted by the Government:                Percentage: 100
          Para Nos. 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11and 12

(iii)     Observations/Recommendations which the                     Total: 0
          Committee do not desire to pursue in view of               Percentage: 0
          the reply of the Government:

          Para Nos.    - Nil

(iv)      Observations/Recommendations in respect of                 Total: 0
          which replies of the Government have not been              Percentage: 0
          accepted by the Committee and which require
          reiteration:

          Para Nos. - Nil

(v)       Observations/Recommendations in respect of                 Total: 0
          which the Government have furnished interim replies:       Percentage: 0

          Para No.    Nil




                                              48
