2.8 Non-utilisation of a newly constructed building

Inability of Indo-Tibetan Border Police in carrying out rectification of defects in newly constructed Building ‘X’ through the contractor as well as the National Project Construction Corporation Limited (Project Management Consultant), in accordance with the MoU/Contract, resulted in non-utilisation of the said building for more than four years. An amount of ₹ 14.57 crore incurred on construction of the building remained unfruitful.

In order to provide better living conditions to ITBP officials who are guarding the Indo-China border in extreme cold and adverse climatic conditions at high altitude, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) accorded administrative approval and expenditure sanction (August 2016) of ₹ 17.21 crore for construction of Building ‘X’ for ITBP. The basic objective of the project was to maintain liveable temperature of (+) 22 degree Celsius inside the building, round the clock and throughout the year, using an economical and eco-friendly methodology, even when the outside temperature dips to (-) 40 degree Celsius. Audit noted that Building ‘X’ was the first pilot project of ITBP.

ITBP engaged (July 2016) National Projects Construction Corporation Limited (NPCCL) on nomination basis as Project Management Consultant by signing an MoU, for construction of the said building. As per clause 2 (details of work) of MoU, NPCCL was to undertake the construction of company level building along with services and

development works 34. As per clause 3.2 of MoU, NPCCL was to assume total and single point responsibility for the quality of work and timely completion of the projects by its executing agencies. As per clause 3.4 of MoU, ITBP or any person authorised by it/him could inspect the construction work at any time to satisfy itself/himself that the building was being constructed by the agency as per drawing and specification as provided in the Estimate. If any defects or variation were found during the inspection, they would have to be got rectified by NPCCL at their own cost.

NPCCL awarded (September 2016) the construction work to a contractor for ₹ 15.94 crore with November 2017 as initial time for completion. As per the contract, specialised services i.e., Radiant Underflooring Heating System 35, Solar Thermal Water Heating System 36, Solar Photo Voltaic System 37 and Geothermal Fresh Air System 38, were designed and engineered by the Architects and approved by the IIT Roorkee. As per the contract, the responsibility of system design, manufacturing, erection, working and safety was solely the responsibility of the contractor for parameters as mentioned in the tender documents prepared by the Architects.

Further, the system, after commissioning, was to be handed over to ITBP and thereafter they were to monitor the performance for standard designed parameters for twelve months continuously, overlapping with the defect liability period. In case during this period, the performance was not found satisfactory, and rectification/replacement, design improvement or any other change was felt necessary, it was to be made by the contractor at no extra cost to the owner, though these improvements could only be done after getting the approval from the Architects. The defect liability period for specialized services i.e. Radiant Underflooring Heating System, Solar Thermal Water Heating System, Solar Photo Voltaic System and Geothermal Fresh Air System, would be deemed to have started from the last such improvement. It is pertinent to note that these specialized services would be treated as a single package and none of them could be treated in isolation from the others since the combined performance would ensure designed outputs which were of prime importance for the functioning of the project.

34 Electrical works, Public Health Engineering (PHE) works and green features. 
35 Radiant under flooring heating system- Radiant under flooring heating systems supply heat 
directly to the floor of a room. The systems depend largely on radiant heat transfer - the delivery 
of heat directly from the hot surface to the people and objects in the room via infrared radiation. 
36 Solar water heating system is a system that helps in heating water by using the energy from the 
Sun. 
37 A Solar photovoltaic system is an electric power system designed to supply usable solar power 
by means of photovoltaics. It consists of several components, including solar panels to absorb 
and convert sunlight into electricity, a solar inverter to convert the output from direct to 
alternating current, as well as mounting, cabling, and other electrical accessories to set up a 
working system. 
38 Geothermal Fresh Air System uses the earth's relatively constant temperature to provide heating, 
cooling, and hot water for homes and commercial buildings. 

ITBP released an amount aggregating ₹ 14.57 crore up to 33 rd Running Account Bill (March 2019). NPCCL intimated (July 2019) that the work of the said building was completed in all respect. Secretary, Border Management Division, MHA, during his visit (September 2020), instructed ITBP that the formal handing over of the building was to take place only when the laid down criteria, especially with regard to maintenance of temperature, was satisfied. Accordingly, ITBP occupied the said building on trial basis on 19 October 2020 to check efficiency, accuracy and performance of all the green features, machinery, equipment etc. for two winter sessions starting from the year 2020-21.

During the trial occupancy, ITBP noticed (November 2020) that radiant floor heating and hot water supply were not working properly. At that time, more than sixty ITBP officials were residing in the said building. The ITBP, in November 2020 and December 2020, requested NPCCL to address the radiant floor heating and hot water supply so that the building could be made functional as per laid design criteria. This was required for providing comfortable living conditions to Jawans deployed at such high altitude.

It was further noticed that temperature maintained inside the building was ranging from 12 to 15 degree Celsius against the desired temperature of 22 degree Celsius when outside temperature remains (-) 25.6 degree Celsius. Even that temperature could not be sustained for a long duration. As such, NPCCL could not succeed in achieving the desired temperature in the building. NPCCL admitted that there was gap in design consideration and implementation of renewable energy features in the said building due to which designed temperature was not achieved.

Other major defects i.e. Bio Digester Tank 39 not working properly, cracks on walls, faulty inverter, solar photo voltaic system not working properly, pipeline from storage tank cracked, faulty temperature gauge, seepage problem, etc. also developed in the structure due to poor execution.

The above deficiencies were communicated to NPCCL by the ITBP in December 2020/January 2021. In February 2021, the entire plant was shut down and the troops of ITBP had to be shifted to the old Fibre Reinforced Plastic huts.

On being pointed out by audit in December 2022 and March 2023, ITBP stated (March 2023), that the building was taken on trial basis for two winter seasons, but the agency failed to achieve designed temperature. In April 2024, ITBP stated that revised estimate submitted by NPCCL was forwarded to MHA. The same was returned by MHA with direction that NPCCL had been requested to rectify all the problems and

39 Bio Digester Tank is the waste management system.

complete the project at the earliest without additional cost. Furthermore, it was also mentioned that the remaining fund 40 will be released only after achieving the parameters mentioned in contract.

The observation was issued to the Ministry in June 2023 and July 2024. MHA (Border Management Division) intimated (May 2024) that NPCCL has submitted rectification plan in February 2024, as per which the building was to be handed over to ITBP by April 2025 after corrective actions by NPPCL and testing and trials of necessary systems 41 during the next winter. MHA, in its further reply (September 2024), reiterated above facts and stated that the building has been completed and only rectification works, related to functionality of green features and maintaining of the designed temperature inside the building, need to be done. NPCCL has started the defect rectification work in June 2024 and the same is expected to be completed by 30 September 2024 and trial of the building will be carried out in the upcoming winter season from October 2024 to March 2025. In its latest reply (May 2025), ITBP intimated that during system trials conducted in December 2024, multiple issues were identified with the radiant floor heating system, including frozen and leaking sections. It further added that presently rectification work of the said Building has been restarted by NPCCL and dismantling of floors to revamp radiant floor heating system was in-progress.

The reply of the Ministry indicates that the building could not be utilized despite incurring an expenditure of ₹ 14.57 crore and completion of the work in July 2019, due to gaps in the design considerations and implementation causing non-achievement of the designed temperature inside the building. While the deficiencies in the building were noticed in November 2020, a high-level meeting under the chairmanship of Secretary (Border Management) for resolving the deficiencies took place only in February 2022, the rectification work commenced after a further two years, i.e. in June 2024 and is still continuing (May 2025). Thus, the very purpose of providing liveable habitat to ITBP officials performing duties in adverse climatic conditions remained unachieved till May 2025 i.e. eight years after the sanction of the work by the Ministry.

40 Total sanctioned amount ₹ 17.21 crore; construction awarded to contractor for ₹ 15.94 crore; 
total funds released to NPCCL ₹ 14.57 crore leaving a balance of ₹ 1.37 crore. The payment 
related to green features such as Solar PV, Solar Thermal System, radiant floor heating etc. are 
outstanding. 
41 Renewal energy, Green energy features and availability of designed temperature inside building 

##### 2.9 Defective planning resulting in blockage of ₹ 6.93 crore, delay in allotment

and avoidable payment of ₹ 1.16 crore

Due to non- provision of essential works like Sewage Treatment Plant, external electric connection and internal roads etc., residential quarters could not be allotted for more than six years after completion, to the officials of 29 th Battalion at Jabalpur resulting in blockade of ₹ 6.93 crore and avoidable payment of ₹ 1.16 crore on House Rent Allowance.

As per rule 132(ii) of General Financial Rules (GFR), 2005, preparation of detailed design and estimate shall precede any sanction for works. As per section 4.2.1 (2) of CPWD works manual 2014, the detailed estimate should be complete and as comprehensive as possible, and should be supported by detailed architectural drawings, preliminary structural plans, preliminary lay out drawings of the various services, detailed drawings and/or specifications for various components of work involved, etc. as applicable.

Director General, Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) accorded administrative approval and expenditure sanction for the construction of 48 family quarters (Type-II/32 numbers and Type-III/16 numbers) at 29 th Battalion, ITBP, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh on 28 September 2015. On the same day, ITBP entered into an agreement with M/s Engineering Projects (India) Limited (EPIL) 42, for construction of these quarters. Thereafter, EPIL allotted the aforesaid work to a third party 43 through tendering under an agreement dated 22 December 2015 for a total value of ₹ 8.37 crore against the estimated cost of ₹ 9.79 crore. As per the agreement with EPIL, the stipulated date of completion of the work was 27 March 2017. The agreement also provided for defect liability period of one year from the date of completion of works. During this period, EPIL was to repair/rectify defects pointed out by ITBP without any cost.

Audit observed (January 2023) that the construction of all 48 residential quarters (Type-II/32 Numbers and Type-III/16 Numbers) was completed on 31 October 2018 by EPIL at the cost of ₹ 6.93 crore. A technical committee was set up by ITBP Jabalpur to look into the rectification of defects in the construction. The quarters were taken over by the ITBP Jabalpur on 26 November 2019 after rectification of the defects by the EPIL as pointed out by the technical committee. However, the quarters could not be allotted till date (October 2023) due to the absence of essential services like Sewerage Treatment Plant, external electric connection and internal roads etc. ITBP

42 A GoI enterprise 
43 M/s D Thakkar Construction Pvt Ltd. Under agreement dated 22 December 2015 

failed to envisage such requirement while seeking approval of the construction work and the sanctioning authority also did not point out this lacuna. Further, ITBP did not take any steps to provide for these services as a separate work to coincide with the completion of the residential houses. Technical Committee set up to look into deficiencies of construction, also failed to point out the absence of these basic necessities. As a result of these avoidable lapses, on the part of ITBP management, all 48 residential quarters (Type-II/32 Numbers and Type-III/16 Numbers) constructed on 31 October 2018 at the cost of ₹ 6.93 crore remained unutilised for more than five years (as of October 2023). Moreover, ITBP Jabalpur has also been incurring recurring avoidable expenditure on account of House Rent Allowance (HRA) being paid to its personnel for living outside the campus. A payment of ₹ 1.16 crore on account of HRA was made by the ITBP to its personnel from December 2019 to August 2023.

Thus, defective planning on the part of ITBP not only resulted in unfruitful expenditure of ₹ 6.93 crore but also deprived the intended beneficiaries from government accommodation. It further led to consequential avoidable payment of ₹ 1.16 crore (likely to increase) on account of payment of HRA. Additional financial liability on account of maintenance of these residential quarters lying vacant for more than five years, can also not be ruled out.

On being pointed out in Audit, ITBP Jabalpur replied (January 2023) that at the time of handing over of the above quarters, essential services like Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP), external electric connection and internal roads etc. were not provided by EPIL. It further stated that EPIL had started work on these services in January 2023 which was likely to be completed by 31 March 2023. However, the work was temporarily stopped by EPIL. ITBP Jabalpur (August 2023 and October 2023) and Ministry replied (October 2023) that in the original sanctioned scope of work for 48 residential quarters, external development works like external electrification and STP were not included. Due to non-availability of external services, newly constructed quarters could not be utilised. ITBP stated (May 2024) that the work is complete and the handing over process is under progress. In its latest reply (March 2025) ITBP Jabalpur has stated that the residential quarters have been taken over in June 2024 and are being allotted to the officials through e-portal.

Replies of the ITBP Jabalpur/ Ministry confirm the audit point that the project of construction of 48 residential quarters was approved without envisaging the provision of essential services thereby highlighting defects at the planning stage itself. The fact that the work on essential services was started, more than three years after the taking over of quarters by the agency and the allotment could be made only six years after

handing over, further reflects flaws in the planning of the project. This also resulted in payment of HRA, which was avoidable.

The response is silent on the financial liability, if any, on the maintenance of these quarters prior to actual occupation due to natural degradation in the years of non-occupation.

Ministry may ensure compliance to the provisions of the CPWD manual from the planning stage itself in order to avoid any such recurrences in future.

Sashastra Seema Bal

##### 2.10 Blockage of fund of ₹ 80.91 lakh for over five years

Inability of the Sashastra Seema Bal to take timely decision on acquisition of land resulted in blockage of ₹ 80.91 lakh for over five years followed by rise in the cost of land by ₹ 16.18 lakh due to time overrun.

Rule 21 of General Financial Rules, 2005 stipulates that every officer incurring or authorizing expenditure from public moneys should be guided by high standards of financial propriety and is expected to exercise the same vigilance in respect of expenditure incurred from public moneys as a person of ordinary prudence would exercise in respect of expenditure of his own money. Further, every officer should also enforce financial order and strict economy and see that all relevant financial rules and regulations are observed, by his own office and by subordinate disbursing officers.

Based on the proposal (October 2017) of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Force Headquarters, New Delhi, the Ministry of Home Affairs sanctioned (December 2017) an amount of ₹ 80.91 lakh for purchasing private land of 1.28 acres (0.520 hectare) at Dwalisera in Uttarakhand for establishment of a Border Out Post (BOP) for 55 th Battalion, SSB, Pithoragarh. This total amount was deposited with the Deputy Land Acquisition Officer (DLAO), Pithoragarh in August 2018.

As per the RCTLARR Act, 2013 44 (Act), in case of land acquisition in public interest, a preliminary notification under Section 11 of the Act and after receiving the payment for the acquisition of proposed land, a declaration under Section 19 of the Act are required to be issued by the land acquisition officer within 12 months from the issue of preliminary notification, failing which the entire process of acquisition would be forfeited. The DLAO initiated the land acquisition proceedings by issuing

44 Right to fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.

(October 2018) the preliminary notification and was expected to issue draft declaration by end of October 2019 to avoid forfeiture of the land acquisition process.

Audit noted that as per the Gazette Notification issued by the Government of Uttarakhand (July 2017) the said land would be partially submerged under reservoir of Pancheshwar Dam.

Audit observed (March 2020) that SSB initially did not take note of the gazette notification issued by the Government, about the partial submergence of the proposed land and deposited the amount with the DLAO. After realizing about the status of land, it requested (June 2019) the District Authority to pause the acquisition process. It also enquired about the possibility of adjusting the amount already paid for an alternative piece of land. Further, Commandant, SSB, Pithoragarh in a report (March 2019) submitted to SSB, Ranikhet and SSB, Almora had stated that the said land was suitable for BOP and a number of Government projects were being implemented in the proposed area. However, SSB failed to decide whether to move forward with the acquisition process of the said land or to take back the amount deposited with the DLAO until October 2019. This delay caused forfeiture of the entire process of acquisition of land. SSB also did not follow up on the possibility of acquisition of suitable alternative land. Thus, the abnormal delay in taking decision by SSB in selecting suitable land for establishment of BOP caused blockade of funds of ₹ 80.91 lakh for more than five years. There was also a loss of ₹ 4.10 lakh on account of taxes and other expenses due to forfeiture of acquisition process. Audit noted that when the DLAO asked SSB to submit a fresh proposal for the same land in July 2021 to initiate the proceeding of land acquisition, it again failed to respond till June 2023.

The SSB, Sector Headquarter, Almora replied (June 2023) that a proposal has been sent to Frontier Headquarter, Ranikhet for additional sanction of ₹ 16.18 lakh as demanded by the DLAO towards increased cost of land.

MHA replied (February 2024) that SSB had requested the Government of Uttarakhand and WAPCOS (PSU preparing the DPR of the Project) to intimate the timeline for construction of the Pancheshwar Dam. However, no response was received. Thereafter, considering the strategic location of the land and also the fact that a number of Government Projects were being implemented in the same area, SSB decided to go ahead with the acquisition process. However, by this time cost of land had increased and SSB deposited (July 2023) the additional amount of ₹ 16.18 lakh with the DLAO Pithoragarh and the acquisition was in process.

Reply of the Ministry is not tenable as Commandant, SSB, Pithoragarh in a report (March 2019) submitted to SSB, Ranikhet and SSB, Almora had stated that the said land was suitable for BOP and a number of Government projects were being implemented in the proposed area. However, SSB did not finalise the decision to go ahead with the project in time, leading to forfeiture of the acquisition process in October 2019, resulting in loss of ₹ 4.10 lakh. When asked by the DLAO to submit a fresh proposal for the same land in July 2021, it again failed to respond till June 2023. This indecision of the SSB led to blockage of an amount of ₹ 80.91 lakh for more than five years and delay in the construction of Border outpost.

The decision to go ahead with the construction of BOP on the land which is under the threat of submergence may also render the project vulnerable.

