      WWW.LIVELAW.IN
                                                                     2.21smcrpil
                                       (1)

       IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY
                  BENCH AT AURANGABAD

      CRIMINAL SUO-MOTO PUBLIC INTEREST LITIGATION
                     NO. 02 OF 2021

 The Registrar (Judicial),
 High Court of Judicature of Bombay,
 Bench at Aurangabad                           .. PETITIONER

 Versus

 The Union of India & Ors.                     .. RESPONDENTS
                                     ..…

 Shri. Satyajit S. Bora, Advocate appointed as Amicus Curiae;
 Shri. D. R. Kale, Chief Public Prosecutor for respondents/State;
 Shri. Anil Singh and Shri. Ajay G. Talhar, ASGIs for respondent No.1;
 Shri. S. G. Chapalgaonkar, Advocate for respondent No.8;
 Shri. S. R. Patil, Advocate for respondent No.20;
 Shri. K. N. Lokhande, Advocate for respondent no. 22;
 Shri. D. M. Shinde, Advocate for respondent No.23;
 Shri. R. K. Ingole, Advocate for respondent no. 25;
 Shri. G. K. Naik Thigale, Advocate for respondent No.26
                                  .....

                                    CORAM : RAVINDRA V. GHUGE
                                                  AND
                                            B. U. DEBADWAR, JJ.

                                      DATE : 2nd June, 2021


 ORAL ORDER [ Per Ravindra V. Ghuge, J. ] : -

                               FAULTY VENTILATORS


 1.       The learned Chief Public Prosecutor has placed before us a

 compilation of three pages pertaining to the special meeting held on

 29/05/2021 in the Government Medical College and Hospital,



::: Uploaded on - 02/06/2021                  ::: Downloaded on - 02/06/2021 16:57:19 :::
      WWW.LIVELAW.IN
                                                                       2.21smcrpil
                                       (2)

 Aurangabad, for conducting an analysis of installation, commissioning

 and operation of ventilators provided to the State by the Central

 Government for COVID-19 management.                  He submits that this

 inspection of the ventilators pertains to the defective ventilators at

 issue, Model name ‘Dhaman-III’ and the name of the manufacturer and

 supplier is Jyoti CNC, Rajkot. We have taken the said report on record

 and have marked it as ‘X-21’, for identification.



 2.       Having perused ‘X-21’, we find as under :-


          a)      The ventilators that were commissioned have suffered

          continuous break down even after repairs;

          b)      Desaturation, water drain issue, UI not proper, frequent

          oxygen sensor failure, water drain failure and defective user

          interface are some of the defects;

          c)      There is a sufficient stock of consumables with the

          hospitals;

          d)      There are 269 trained personnel in the hospital to operate

          the ventilators;

          e)      Training material/User Manuals have been provided to the

          hospital at the time of the deployment of the ventilators;

          f)      The personnel operating the ventilators are found to be

          aware of the functioning and operations of the said ventilators;


::: Uploaded on - 02/06/2021                    ::: Downloaded on - 02/06/2021 16:57:19 :::
      WWW.LIVELAW.IN
                                                                           2.21smcrpil
                                          (3)

          g)      Amongst the 21 persons who participated in the said

          inspection and analysis, were the representatives of the

          manufacture,         the   procurement    agency        HLL,        CDSCO

          representatives,       DGHS/AIIMS        Nagpur       and      two      more

          representatives of the manufacturer.



 3.       Shri. Anil Singh, the learned ASGI has addressed us from

 Mumbai and has conveyed to us that two senior Doctors, one each

 from the Ram Manohar Lohiya Hospital and the Safdarjang Hospital

 would be visiting GMCH Aurangabad tomorrow with the intention of

 carrying out extensive inspection of the ventilators at issue. If the

 ventilators are found to be dysfunctional even after inspection/repairs,

 the manufacturer would be held liable and the Union of India shall

 press for replacement of such defective ventilators keeping in view

 that there exists a one year manufacturer’s warranty in relation to each

 of such ventilator.           Shri. Singh has further stated that this Public

 Interest Litigation is not adversarial litigation and the Union of India

 has every desire to ensure that patients are treated properly with the aid

 of ventilators.



 4.       The learned ASGI hastens to add that no casualty would occur

 since these ventilators will not be made operational in the treatment of



::: Uploaded on - 02/06/2021                        ::: Downloaded on - 02/06/2021 16:57:19 :::
      WWW.LIVELAW.IN
                                                                     2.21smcrpil
                                    (4)

 the patients until the team of the doctors visiting GMCH Aurangabad

 and representatives of the manufacturer ensure that the ventilators are

 upto desirable operational standards.



 5.       The learned Chief Public Prosecutor submits that since it is

 extremely risky to utilize the defective ventilators in the treatment of

 the patients, the GMCH Aurangabad and Ambajogai would not use

 these ventilators until they are fully convinced that the ventilators are

 perfectly functional and they would deliver the desired results while

 treating the patients. The GMCH does not want to be blamed for a

 casualty, if it occurs on account of the use of such ventilators. He

 further states that the GMCH at Aurangabad or Ambajogai do not have

 a repairing centre and it would be appropriate that the manufacturer

 carries these defective ventilators to it’s own repairing centres or

 Research and Development centres.



 6.       Considering the above, we deem it appropriate to post this

 matter on 7th June, 2021. We make it clear that we expect the Union of

 India to be firm with the manufacturer in the event of a supply of

 defective ventilators and if we find it necessary, we would be directing

 the returning of the defective ventilators. In such a situation, it would

 be the responsibility of the Union of India to ensure that the defective



::: Uploaded on - 02/06/2021                  ::: Downloaded on - 02/06/2021 16:57:19 :::
      WWW.LIVELAW.IN
                                                                               2.21smcrpil
                                            (5)

 ventilators        are        replaced   with    new      functional         ventilators.

 Manufacturing defects call for replacement under the warranty

 scheme.        In short, we would not permit experimentation of the

 ventilators which have undergone major repairs, in treating the

 patients, since this would be causing a risk/health hazard to the

 patients and unfortunately, the use of such ventilators may cause loss

 of life, which should be averted.



 7.       We expect a report to be placed before us with regard to the visit

 of the two Doctors and the exercise that is supposed to be undertaken

 tomorrow i.e. 3rd June, 2021.



 8.       We would take up this issue for hearing on 7th June, 2021.



       AMBULANCE OPERATORS OVER CHARGING FARE



 9.       The learned Chief Public Prosecutor has placed before us a

 communication received by him, dated 01/06/2021 from the District

 Collector and the Chair Person, Disaster Management Committee,

 Aurangabad (12 pages). We have taken the same on record and have

 marked it as ‘X-22’, for identification.




::: Uploaded on - 02/06/2021                            ::: Downloaded on - 02/06/2021 16:57:19 :::
     WWW.LIVELAW.IN
                                                                     2.21smcrpil
                                    (6)

 10.      He submits that those ambulances which were found to be

 overcharging the relatives of the patients, have been taken to task and

 have been penalized as per the Rules. The rate chart is affixed on

 every such ambulance by the R.T.O. at the time of it’s registration.

 The validity period of the chart is also mentioned. Those ambulances

 which have violated the conditions imposed as regards the fare to be

 charged, have been penalized.



 11.      We are of the view that it would be a continuous process where

 in the competent committee will have to deal with the offenders on

 day-to-day basis. It would be appropriate for the R.T.O. to carry out

 surprise checks of such ambulance vehicles and in the event of

 noticing any ambulance operator having torn/ripped off the fare chart

 affixed on the vehicles, such a vehicle can be impounded and heavy

 penalty may be imposed before granting permission to commission the

 said vehicle.


 12.      Stand over to 3rd June, 2021, to take up the issue of

 Mucormycosis and availability of the drugs for treatment.




    (B. U. DEBADWAR, J.)                  (RAVINDRA V. GHUGE, J.)

 sjk



::: Uploaded on - 02/06/2021                  ::: Downloaded on - 02/06/2021 16:57:19 :::
