ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 54; OCR transcription, visually checked
Modern Road Makers Private Limited
Notes to Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2024
{e) Revenue recognition for future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially satisfied):
The Company applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of Ind AS 115 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations where the Company has @
fight to consideration from customer in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company's performance completed to date. Accordingly, the
Company recognises revenue by an amount to which the Company has a right to invoice.
(f) Practical expedients:
Applying the practical expedient in paragraph 63 of Ind AS 115, the Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing
component if at contract inception it is expected that the period between when the entity transfers a promised goad or service to @ customer and when the customer pays for that
good or service will be one period or less
The Company applies practical expedient in paragraph 121 of Ind AS 115 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations for EPC contracts that have
original expected duration of one period or less.
Note 43 : Donation
During the current period, donation given of Rs.358.62 million (March 31, 2023: Rs. 286.60 million) which included donation to political party amounting to Rs. 350.00 million (March 31,
2028 : Rs. 265.00 milion).
Note 44; Disclosure on Ind-As 116 Leases
Effective April 1, 2019, the Group has adopted Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’, applied to all leases contracts existing on April 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective method along with the transition
option to recognise Right-To-Use asset (ROU) at an amount equal to the lease liability.
In Statement of profit and loss for the current period, the nature of expenses in respect of operating leases has changed from lease rent in previous periods to depreciation cost for the right-
to-use asset and finance costs for interest accrued on lease liability
The effect of depreciation and interest related to Right Of Use Asset and Lease Liability are reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss under the heading "Depreciation and Amortisation
Expense" and “Finance costs" respectively under Note No 4 and 27.
Following are the changes in the carrying value of right of use assets for the period ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023:
Rs. in million)
Balance as on April 2 7612 115.83
(38.80) (39.73)
[Closing Balance period ended [3632 76.22 |
‘The following is the break-up of current and non-current lease liabilities as of March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023:
(Rs, in million)
a cc ee
Lease Liabilities weet asa 4.49 |
a © 1 | 45.49
The following is the movement in lease liabilities for the period ended March 31, 2024
{Rs. in million}
a
[Opening balance 5.07 219.98
[Additions during the period SS es |
interest charged 664 10.62
[Paymentsmade (47.83 (45.53)
Note 45 : Material accounting judgement, estimates and assumptions
‘The preparation of the Company's financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenue, expenses ,
assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Estimates and assumptions
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods
are affected.
The Company based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future
developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they
occur.
Taxes
There are many transactions and calculations undertaken during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Where the final tax outcome of these
matters Is different fram the amounts initially recarded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax provisions in the period in which the tax determination is made. The
assessment of probability involves estimation of a number of factors including future taxable income.
Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits)
{liability in respect of defined benefit plans is recognised in the balance sheet, and is measured as the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date. The present value
of the defined benefit obligation is based on expected future payments at the reporting date, calculated annually by independent actuaries, Consideration is given to expected future salary
levels, experience of employee departures and periods of service.
#/, ers
s j 5
Pi SS >
4 S Sy
We & a
W5., by -.
Swiered ME” @, ii
Ses 20, G
= 0)
Wx
