Press Release:

GIC Affiliate to invest Rs.1,045 Crores in IRB Infra’s Ganga
                     Expressway project
   •   IRB Infra & GIC Affiliate will invest in aggregate Rs. 2,133 Crore in
       Ganga Expressway project;

   •   First tranche of equity investment of Rs. 533.20 Crore now completed
       by Ganga Expressway

   •   IRB Infra will hold 51% stake in the Project while GIC Affiliate will hold
       49%.

   •   IRB Infra will act as the Project Manager for Ganga Expressway Project.

   •   As the Project Manager, IRB Infra to receive Rs. 5,279 Crore (plus
       applicable taxes) towards EPC during construction period and Rs.
       5,180 Crore (plus applicable taxes) towards O&M during concession
       period

   •   The project already achieved financial closure and tied up Rs. 2,659
       Crore Project finance

Mumbai, October 19, 2022: India’s leading and first multinational infrastructure player in
highways development sector, IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd.’s Ganga Expressway
Project has completed equity raise of Rs. 533.20 Crore. Singapore based GIC Affiliates
contributed Rs. 261.29 Crore and IRB Infra contributed Rs. 271.90 Crore. IRB Infra will
hold 51% stake in the Project while GIC Affiliate will hold 49%. The Project is
expected to complete private placement of NCD of Rs. 138.65 Crores to IRB Infra and GIC
Affiliate soon subject to fulfillment of condition precedents.

The Company will also act as the Project Manager for implementing the project. As the
Project Manager it will be receiving entire flow of consideration towards EPC and O&M
Works for the Project, which will be in aggregate approximately Rs. 10,459 Crores (plus
applicable taxes).

Commenting on the development, Mr. Virendra D. Mhaiskar, Chairman & Managing
Director of IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited said, “This is in line with our strategy
of exploring the opportunities in the sector. We are grateful to GIC for investing with

                                                                                        1
us in developing the prestigious project for the Nation. We are committed to deliver
the project with high quality and safety standards for the State of Uttar Pradesh.” He
further added, “It needs to be appreciated that the project has already achieved its
financial closure and also received appointed date from the UPEIDA, which has
allowed us to commence construction activity and also immediately receive the first
round of investment in the project.”

To re-iterate, Meerut Budaun Expressway, Ganga Expressway Group 1 Greenfield BOT
Project is six lanes stretch of 129.700 Kms, expandable to eight lanes, between Meerut and
Budaun in Uttar Pradesh, with the cost outlay of Rs. 6,538 Crores.

The project had achieved Financial Closure, where the Senior Lender had extended
financial support of Rs. 2,659 Crs; IRB & GIC Affiliate have committed Equity and related
infusion of Rs. 2,133 Crores and the Viable Gap Funding (VGF) from UP`EIDA is Rs.1,746
Crs.

The Company had recently received Appointed Date from nodal agency, Uttar Pradesh
Expressways & Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) to commence construction
activity in full swing so as to meet the set timeline for completion and commissioning of the
prestigious project for use of people of the State of Uttar Pradesh.

About IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd:

IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd (IRB) is India’s first Multinational Infrastructure player in
Highways segment. As the largest integrated private toll roads and highways infrastructure
developer in India, IRB has an asset base of over Rs.60,000 Crs. in 10 States across the
parent company and two InvITs.

The Company has strong track record of constructing, tolling, operating and maintaining
around 15,500 lane Kms pan India till date and has an ability to construct over 500 Kms in
a year.

It has approx. 20% share in India’s prestigious Golden Quadrilateral project, which is the
largest by any private infrastructure developer in India.

After successfully completing 13 Concessions and handing over them to the nodal
agencies, at present, IRB Group’s project portfolio (including Private and Public InvIT) has
22 road projects that include 17 BOT, 1 TOT and 4 HAM projects along with 1 Airport
project in Sindhudurg District of Maharashtra.

About GIC

GIC is a leading global investment firm established in 1981 to secure Singapore’s financial
future. As the manager of Singapore’s foreign reserves, GIC takes a long-term, disciplined
approach to investing and is uniquely positioned across a wide range of asset classes and
active strategies globally. These include equities, fixed income, real estate, private equity,
venture capital and infrastructure. Its long-term approach, multi-asset capabilities and

                                                                                             2
global connectivity enable it to be an investor of choice. GIC seeks to add meaningful value
to its investments. Headquartered in Singapore, GIC has a global talent force of over 1,900
people in 11 key financial cities and has investments in over 40 countries. For more
information, please visit http://www.gic.com.sg or follow on LinkedIn.


For further details, please contact:

   •   Vivek Devasthali, Head - Corporate Communications, 99300 80099,
       vivek.devasthali@irb.co.in

   •   Siddharth Kumar, Sr. Account Director, Adfactors PR, 99029 29187
       siddharth.kumar@adfactorspr.com




                                                                                          3
