Press Release

   A step forward for prestigious Ganga Expressway
  IRB Infra SPV achieves Financial Closure for Rs. 6,538 Crs
Meerut to Budaun 129.700 Kms Group 1 Greenfield BOT project

   •   Secures finances of Rs. 2,659 Crs from the Lenders
   •   Committed equity infusion of Rs. 2,133 Crs by the Company and/or its
       associate, i.e., IRB Infrastructure Trust

   •   Viable Gap Funding (VGF) of Rs.1,746 Crs
   •   Project Concession Period is for 30 years with traffic link extension
       provision of 6 years, including three years construction period

   •   Company to start construction in full swing in next couple of months

   •   All projects in the IRB Group portfolio financially closed; company to
       focus on exploring felicitous opportunities in the sector

Mumbai, June 16, 2022: Meerut Budaun Expressway Pvt. Ltd., an SPV and the Wholly-
owned Subsidiary of IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd. (IRB Infra), has achieved Financial
Closure for the ambitious Ganga Expressway Group 1 Greenfield BOT project in the State of
Uttar Pradesh.
The project is to Build, Operate and Transfer the six lane Greenfield Expressway corridor of
129.700 Kms (expandable to eight lanes) between Meerut and Budaun in Uttar Pradesh, with
a cost outlay of Rs.6,538 Crs.
While commenting on the development, Mr. Virendra D. Mhaiskar, Chairman & Managing
Director of the Company said, “This is the largest greenfield BOT project thus far in our
portfolio. We are grateful to our Lenders for, again, showing high trust and confidence
in our rich domain expertise and execution capabilities developed and demonstrated
over last two decades.” He added, “Company is mobilizing the resources to commence
construction in full swing in next couple of months. With assurance of a World Class
construction without any compromise on quality and safety, we will endeavour for
timely completion of the project.”
With this, all the projects in the portfolio have been financially closed, which helps the
Company in focusing on upcoming opportunities in the sector.

The highlights of the Project and Financial Closure:

   •   The financial closure is achieved at the Project Cost of Rs. 6,538 Crs.


                                                                                          1
   •   Consortium of Lenders extends financial support of Rs. 2,659 Crs.

   •   Project entails equity infusion of Rs. 2,133 Crs by the Company and/ or its associate,
       i.e., IRB Infrastructure Trust.

   •   Project has Viability Gap Funding of Rs. 1,746 Crs.

   •   The project has concession period of 30 years (with provision of traffic linked extension
       of 6 years) including three years construction period.

   •   Company is set to start construction in full swing in next couple of months.

About IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd:

IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd (IRB) is India’s first Multinational Infrastructure player in
Highways segment.
As the largest integrated private toll roads and highways infrastructure developer in India, IRB
has an asset base of over Rs.60,000 Crs. in 10 States across the parent company and two
InvITs.
The Company has strong track record of constructing over 15,500 lane Kms pan India in 3
decades and has an ability to construct over 500 Kms in a year.
It has approx. 20% share in India’s prestigious Golden Quadrilateral project, which is the
largest by any private infrastructure developer in India.
At present, IRB Group’s portfolio (including Private and Public InvIT) has 22 road projects that
include 17 BOT, 1 TOT and 4 HAM projects.


For further details, please contact:

   •   Vivek Devasthali, Head – Corporate Communications, 99300 80099,
       vivek.devasthali@irb.co.in

   •   Siddharth Kumar, Sr. Account Director, Adfactors PR, 99029 29187
       siddharth.kumar@adfactorspr.com




                                                                                              2
