                                INCORPORATED
                         UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956
                                   (1 OF 1956)
                         (COMPANY LIMITED BY SHARES)
                         MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION
                                       OF

             MEGHA ENGINEERING & INFRASTRUCTURES LIMITED

I. The name of the Company is MEGHA ENGINEERING & INFRASTRUCTURES
     LIMITED.
II. The Registered Office of the Company will be situated in the State of Telangana*.
III. The objects for which the Company is established are:

(A) THE MAIN OBJECTS TO BE PURSUED BY THE COMPANY ON ITS
    INCORPORATION ARE:

1. To carry on the business of developers of infrastructure projects of every kind and
   description, industrial parks, town ships, real estate developers, builders, engineers,
   contractors of civil, mechanical, electrical and structural engineering, construction of
   drinking water and irrigation projects, roads, sewers, bridges, embankments, dams,
   canals, ports, etc.

2. To carry on business as providers of infrastructure facilities of every kind and description
   either on lease or otherwise and for these purposes to purchase take on lease or otherwise
   acquire and hold any lands, estates or buildings, rights or interests therein or connected
   there with and to construct, reconstruct, alter, improve, decorate, furnish and maintain
   buildings, structures and erections of all kinds and to carry on any other business
   analogous or incidental thereto.

3. To carry on business as manufacturers, importers, exporters, dealers and traders in MS
   Pipes, PSC Pipes, GRP Pipes, Surge Protection Devices, electrical, electronic, mechanical
   and engineering products, devices, tools, goods and accessories of every kind and
   description, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, metal castings, forgings and structures.

4. To carry on business in Power sector comprising of trading, generation, transmission and
   distribution with conventional and non-conventional sources and renewable and
   alternative energy sources.

5. To carry in business in Hydrocarbon sector comprising exploration, production,
   processing and engineering procurement and construction of related plant and equipment
   in petroleum and gas sector.

   (*By virtue of The Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014, the situation of the
   Registered office of the Company falls under the State of Telangana.)
                                              1
6. To plan, establish, develop, provide, operate, maintain and market various services,
   including cable or satellite based communications and networking services or
   broadcasting or broadcasting content services, direct-to-home services, satellite based
   transmission services and maintain telecommunication networks, systems, services
   including telephones, telex, message, relay, data transmission, facsimile, television,
   telematics, value added network services, paging, cellular, mobile, audio and video
   services, maritime and Aeronautical communication services and other
   telecommunication services as are in use elsewhere or to be developed in future and to act
   as satellite based service provider and carry on the business of generation, distribution,
   redistribution, reception, transmission, re-transmission of audio, video, data and radio
   signals.

7. To carry on the business of design, development, manufacture, installation,
   commissioning, integration, up-gradation, repairs and to act as maintainers, buyers,
   sellers, hirers, exporters, importers, distributors, representatives and dealers of all military
   grade products including weapons, small arms, medium & large arms, ammunition,
   military transport, Infantry Combat Vehicles, defence electronics, avionics,
   communication equipment, naval systems for Defence Forces including Army, Navy, Air
   Force, Para Military forces and State police forces and to run the said activity by itself or
   through partnership, joint venture, Transfer of Technology (ToT) in association with any
   private, public or foreign technology partners."

   Note: The Object No.7 is inserted vide Special Resolution passed at Extra Ordinary
   General Meeting of members duly convened on 27th April 2018.

8. *To carry on in India or elsewhere the business of exploring, operating and working on
   mines, quarries, to acquire mining and other rights on coal mines, metals, ores or minerals
   by purchase, lease, license, grant or otherwise, to engage in the production, extraction,
   sale and disposal, gasification, liquefaction, trading, import, export, sub-contracting and
   to deal with coal, metals, minerals and its by products, to mine, quarry or beneficiate
   coal, coke and other by- products of minerals, to treat and render marketable such of the
   aforesaid and any other minerals as are capable of commercial exploitation, beneficiation,
   to install, operate and manage all necessary plants, mines, establishments in India and
   abroad.

9. *To establish, organize, manage, run, charter, conduct, contract, develop, handle, own,
   operate, lease the passenger services, freight forwarders, transport, cartage and haulage
   contractors in India and abroad and to provide carrier, freight, transport, and delivery
   services by land, road, railway, sea, river, canal, water or air through any kind of vehicle
   or mode of transport and to act as booking agents, indenting agents and travel agents for
   and in connection with the passengers, containers, packages, parcels, articles, mails,
   goods or bulk commodities.

   *Note: The Object No.8 and 9 are inserted vide Special Resolution passed at Extra-
   Ordinary General Meeting of members duly convened on 27th August 2020.


10. To carry on the business of Engineering, designing, construction, developing, operating,
    maintaining on ground and below ground, under ground storage locations, storage and
    distributing terminals for Crude oil, petroleum, Petroleum gas terminal, natural gas

                                                2
     terminal, Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants (POL) Terminals and storage and leasing of
     space, liquefaction facility, regasification facility, Retail Fuel and Compressed Natural
     Gas (CNG) Stations, retail outlets and all associated facilities and infrastructure required
     for this business, to procure, to process, to undertake marketing, trading and distribution
     of all types of commodities including crude oil, natural gas, petroleum products
     liquefied petroleum gas, petrol, naphtha, high speed diesel, aviation turbine fuel, superior
     kerosene oil and all related products etc., to deal with any spare parts, accessories,
     equipment, or anything or things required and necessary for the above mentioned
     business in India and abroad.

11. To carry on the business of engineering, design, construction, development, and
    maintenance of tourism parks, recreation centres, gardens, and tourism hubs, including
    but not limited to theme parks, eco-tourism sites, heritage sites, and entertainment zones,
    establishing, running, operating and managing of super luxury holistic wellness resorts,
    wellness clubs and health farms and rejuvenation centres and wellness retreats, resorts,
    wellbeing clinics by discovering new healthy habits that aim at providing long-term
    benefits.

(B) THE OBJECTS THAT ARE INCIDENTAL OR ANCILLARY TO THE
    ATTAINMENT OF THE MAIN OBJECTS ARE:

1.   To acquire, promote, own, establish, maintain and manage offices, firms, companies,
     warehouses, factories, plant & machinery, equipment in India or any part of the World
     for the conduct of the business of the Company conveniently or for the sale of any
     materials or things for the time being at the disposal of the Company for sale.

2.   To acquire real or leasehold estate, and to purchase, lease, construct or otherwise acquire
     or provide in any place in which any part of the business of the company may from time
     to time be carried on, all such offices, factories, warehouses, work-shops, buildings,
     engines, machinery, plant and appliances, as may be considered requisite and essential
     for the purpose of carrying on business of Company or any part thereof.

3.   To acquire and secure membership, scat or privilege either in the name of the company
     or its nominee or nominees in and of any association, exchanges, market, club or other
     institution in India or any part of the world for furtherance of any of the main objects of
     the company or any business, trade or industry.

4.   To enter into collaboration as joint ventures or otherwise with parties in India or abroad
     for the purposes of promotion, improvement and for implementation of any or all the
     objectives of the Company.

5.   To buy, prepare, treat, repair, manipulate, exchange, hire, let on hire import, plant,
     dispose of and deal in all kinds of articles and things which may be required for the
     purpose of any of the business which the Company is expressly or by implication
     authorized by this Memorandum to carry on or which are commonly supplied or dealt in
     by persons engaged any such business or which may seem capable of being profitably
     dealt in connection with any of the said business & deal in all kinds of plant, machinery,
     apparatus tools, utensils materials & things necessary or convenient for carrying on all or
     any of the main objects of Company.



                                                3
6.   To erect buildings, sheds, roads or houses on any land leased or purchased or to be
     leased to the Company, and to enlarge, alter or improve existing buildings, sheds, roads
     or houses thereon, for the purpose of business of the Company.

7.   To employ or otherwise acquire technical experts, engineers, mechanics, foremen or
     skilled and unskilled labour for any of the purposes or business of the Company.

8.   To make, undertake or encourage, experiment, research or invent in connection with the
     business of the Company.

9.   To apply for, tender, purchase or otherwise acquire, contracts, subcontracts and
     concessions for all or any of them and to undertake, execute, carryout, dispose of or
     otherwise turn to account the same and to sublet all or any contracts from time to time
     and upon such terms and conditions as may be thought expedient.

10. To let on lease any machinery, plant, buildings and equipments of the Company for the
    time being the property of the Company or property which will be acquired in due
    course whether as a whole or part by part to any person, firm or Company.

11. To develop, repair, improve, extend, maintain, manage mortgage, charge, exchange, sell,
    assign, transfer, dispose of turn to account, or otherwise deal with the whole or any part
    of Company’s property and assets.

12. To purchase, take on lease or in exchange, hire or otherwise acquire any estates
    [property or otherwise] land or lands in India or elsewhere and any rights of way, water
    rights and other rights, privileges and easements and concession and factories,
    machinery, implements, tools, live and dead stock, stores, effects and other, property,
    real or personal, immovable of any kind in so far as they are related or required for the
    Company’s business.

13. To exchange, lease, mortgage, charge, develop, dispose of or otherwise deal with the
    undertaking of the Company or any part thereof upon such terms and for such
    consideration as the Company may think fit, and in particular for shares or other
    securities of any other company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of
    this Company.

14. To remunerate [by cash or otherwise or by other assets or by allotment of fully or partly
    paid up shares or in any other manner] any persons, firms associations or companies for
    services rendered or to be rendered in giving technical aid and advice, granting licenses
    or permissions for use of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, processes and in acting as
    trustees for debenture holders of the Company or for subscriptions whether absolutely or
    conditionally or for services rendered in or about the formation or promotion of the
    Company, if any, or for guaranteeing payment of such debentures or other securities of
    this Company and in any Company promoted by this company or in introducing any
    property or business to this Company or in or about the conduct of the business of this
    Company or interest thereon.

15. To build, alter, construct, and maintain any mills, factories warehouses, chawls,
    dwellings, reservoirs, tanks, roads, railway siding and canals and other buildings or work
    necessary or convenient for the company or which can be conveniently used in
    connection therewith.

                                              4
16. To purchase or by any other means acquire and protect, prolong and renew, whether in
    India or elsewhere, any patents, rights, processes, and secrets, inventions, licenses,
    protections and concessions which may appear likely to be advantageous or useful to the
    Company, and to use and turn to account and to manufacture or grand licenses or
    privileges in respect of the same and to spend money experimenting upon and testing
    and in improving seeking to improve any patents, inventions, processes, secrets and
    rights which the Company acquire or propose to acquire.

17. To purchase or otherwise acquire and undertake the whole or any part of business,
    property rights, or liabilities of any person, firm or company carrying on any business
    which the company is authorized to carry on or possessed of property or rights suitable
    for any of the purposes of the Company, and to purchase, acquire, promote, aid, sell and
    deal in property shares, stocks, debentures or debenture stocks of any such person firm
    or Company and to conduct, make or carry on and to effect any arrangements in regard
    for the winding up of the business of any such persons, firm or company.


18. To enter into partnership, joint venture or any other arrangement for sharing of profits,
    co-operation, amalgamation, union of the interest, joint adventure, reciprocal concession,
    or otherwise with any Government, authority, person, firm or Company carrying on or
    engaged in or about to carry on, engage in, any business or transaction which this
    Company is authorised to carry on or engaged in, or any business or transaction which
    may seem capable of being carried on or conducted so as directly or indirectly to benefit
    the Company, and to lend money, to guarantee the contracts of or otherwise assist any
    such person, firm or company and to take or otherwise acquire shares, and securities of
    any such company and to sell, hold, reissue with or without guarantee or otherwise deal
    with the same.

19. To amalgamate with any other Company or Companies having objects altogether or in
    part similar to those of this Company.

20. To lend money to such persons or companies and on such terms as may seem expedient
    and in particular to persons having dealings with the company and to guarantee the
    performance of contracts by any such persons or companies.

21. To invest and deal with the money of the company not immediately required in such
    manner as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors.

22. To enter into agreement or arrangements with any Government or authorities, supreme,
    local or otherwise which may seem conducive to the Company’s objects or any of them;
    to obtain from any such Government or authority any rights or privileges and concession
    which Company may think desirable to obtain, and to carryout, exercise and comply
    with any such agreements, rights privileges and concessions, and to oppose the grant of
    any such rights, privileges or concessions to others.

23. To insure with any person or company against losses, damages, risks and liabilities of
    any kind which may affect the Company either wholly or partly.

24. To establish and support or aid in the establishment and support of associations,
    institutions, funds, trusts and conveniences calculated to benefit employees or ex-

                                              5
    employees of the Company or the dependants or connections of such persons and to
    grant pensions and allowances and to make payments towards insurance.

25. To assist any company by subscribing for or guaranteeing the subscription of capital,
    shares, stock, debentures, debenture-stock or other securities and to hold the shares,
    stocks and securities of any Company not withstanding there may be liability thereon.
26. To promote and form and to be interested in and take, hold and dispose of shares in other
    companies having all or any of the objects mentioned in the Memorandum or which may
    be considered useful to this Company and to transfer to any such company property of
    this Company; to take or otherwise acquire, hold and dispose of shares, debentures and
    other securities, in or of any such company and to subsidise or otherwise assist any such
    company.

27. Generally, in India or elsewhere to carryon or assist or participate in any other business
    or trade which may seem to the Company capable of being conveniently carries as
    ancillary to the above main objects or calculated directly or indirectly to promote the
    interests of the company or the enhance the value of or render profitable any of the
    Company’s property or rights.
28. To pay all costs, charges and expenses of and incidental to the promotion, formation,
    registration and establishment of the company and to remunerate or donate to [by cash or
    by the allotment of fully or partly paid shares, or by call or option on shares, debentures,
    debenture stock or securities of this or any other company, whether out of the company’s
    capital profits or otherwise] any person for services rendered or to be rendered or
    introducing any property or business to the Company or for any other reason which
    company may think proper.

29. To procure the registration or other recognition of the company in any country, state or
    place and to establish and regulate agencies for the purpose of the company business and
    to apply to any parliament, local Government, Municipal or other authority or body, in
    India or elsewhere for any Acts of parliament, laws, decrees; concessions, orders, rights
    or privileges that may seem conducive to the Company’s objects or any of them and to
    oppose any proceedings or applications which may seem calculated directly or indirectly
    to prejudice the Company’s interests.

30. To draw, accept, make and to endorse, discount, or negotiate promissory notes, hundies,
    bills of exchange, bills of lading, and other negotiable instruments connected with the
    business or purpose of this company, subject to Banking Regulations Act, 1949.

31. To incur debts and obligations for the conduct of any business of the company and to
    purchase or hire the goods, materials, or machinery on credit or otherwise for any
    business or purpose of this company.

32. To borrow or raise money at interest or otherwise from financial institutions, banks,
    companies, firms and individuals, in such manner as the company may think fit, and/or
    by the issue of debentures or debenture stock, perpetual or otherwise including
    debentures or debentures convertible into shares of this or any other company, or
    perpetual annuities; and in security of any such money so borrowed, raised or received to
    mortgage, pledge or charge the whole or any part of the property, assets or revenue of
    the company, present or future, including its uncalled capital by assignment or
    otherwise, and to transfer or convert the same absolutely or in trust and to give the
    lenders powers of sale and other powers as may seem expedient, and to purchase,
                                               6
    redeem or pay off any such securities. But the company shall not do any banking
    business as defined in the Banking Regulations Act, 1949.

33. To lend, invest or otherwise employ money belonging to the company upon securities
    and shares or without security, upon such terms as may be thought proper, and from time
    to time to vary such transaction in such manner as the Company thinks fit but not to do
    the business of banking within the meaning of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949.

34. To open an account or accounts with any banker or banks or bankers or shroffs and to
    pay into and to withdraw money from such account or accounts, whether they be in
    credit or otherwise.

35. To make advances of such sum or sums of money upon or respect of or for the rendering
    of services to Company, purchase of materials, goods, machinery, stores or any other
    property, articles and things required for purpose of company upon such terms with or
    without security as Company may deem expedient.


36. To create any Depreciation Fund, Reserve Fund, Sinking Fund, Insurance Fund, or any
    other special Fund, whether for depreciation or for repairing, improving extending or
    maintaining any of the property of the Company, or for any other purpose conducive to
    the interests of the Company.

37. To provide for the welfare of the directors, officers, employees and ex-directors, ex-
    officers, ex-employees of the Company and the wives, widows, and families, or
    dependants or connections for such persons by building or contributing to the building of
    houses, dwellings, or chawls or by grants of money, pension, allowances, bonus or other
    payments, or by creating and from time to time subscribing or contributing to provident
    or their associations, institutions, funds or trusts, and by providing or subscribing or
    contributing towards places of instruction and recreation hospitals and dispensaries,
    medical & other assistance as the Company shall think fit; to subscribe or contribute or
    otherwise to assist or to guarantee money to charitable, benevolent, religious, scientific,
    national public or other institutions, and objects which shall have any moral or other
    claim to support or aid by Company either by reason of locality of operation or of public
    & general utility or otherwise, to incur expenditure in developing the education and to
    grant scholar ships, aids or any other help to students including, incurring and paying
    expenses on sending them for higher studies either in India or in any foreign country.

38. To adopt such means for making known the products of or the business carried on by the
    Company as may seem expedient and in particular by advertising in press, by circulars
    or purchase or exhibition of works of art and interest and by publication of books and
    periodicals and by granting prizes, awards and donations.

39. To open and keep a Register or Registers in any country or countries where it may be
    deemed advisable to do so, and to allocate any number of shares in the company to such
    register or registers.

40. To vest any real or personal property, rights, or interest acquired by or belonging to the
    company in any person or company on behalf of or for the benefit of the company and
    with or without any declared trust in favour of the Company, subject to the provision of
    Sec.49 of Companies Act, 1956.

                                              7
41. Subject to the provision of Section 78 of the Companies Act, 1956 to place to reserve or
    otherwise to apply as the company may from time to time think fit, any money received
    by way of premium on shares or debentures issued at a premium by the Company and
    any money received as dividends accrued on the forfeited shares.

42. Subject to the provisions of Companies Act, 1956, to indemnify members, officers,
    directors and servants of the Company or persons otherwise concerned with the
    Company against proceedings, costs, damages, claims and demands in respect of
    anything done or ordered to be done by them for and in the interest of the Company or
    for any damages or losses or misfortune which shall happen in the execution of the
    duties of their office.

43. To promote freedom of contract and to assist, insure against counteract and discourage
    interference with freedom of contract and subscribe to any association or fund for any
    such purpose within constitutional means and to promote or oppose legislative and other
    measures, affecting the Industry, trade and commerce and manufactures within
    constitutional means.

44. In the event of winding up of Company, to distribute any of the property of the
    Company, amongst the members in specie or kind.

45. To train or pay for the training in India or abroad of any of the Company’s Officers,
    employees or any candidate in the interest of or furtherance of the company’s objects
    and business.

(C) THE OTHER OBJECTS FOR WHICH THE COMPANY IS ESTABLISHED
     ARE:

1.   To act as agents or brokers, sub-brokers and Trusties for any person or company and to
     undertake and perform sub-contracts and to do all or part of the above things in any part
     of the world and either as principals, agents, sub-brokers, trustees, contractors or
     otherwise and either alone or jointly with others.

2.   To manufacture, establish, develop, formulate, structure, offer service and/or otherwise
     deal in all types of information and communication, telephone, telex, fax, radio,
     television, computers, satellite communications and other types of communications,
     render consultancy offer training courses, undertake job works/contract to design and
     develop various information’s technologies, software and hardware connected with
     above fields and to obtain patent rights, copy rights and other intellectual property rights
     in the above fields.

3.   To carryon all kinds of agency business and to take part in the management, supervision
     or control of the business or operations of any other company, corporation, undertaking,
     establishment, firm or person and in connection there with to appoint and remunerate
     any directors, accountants and other experts or agents.

4.   To carry on the business of engineers, builders, contractors of civil, mechanical electrical
     and other kind: decorators and manufactures, importers, exporters, designers, fabricators,
     buyers, sellers and dealers in all kinds of construction material equipment, machinery
     and other allied materials.

                                               8
5.     To carry on the business of garage proprietors, taxi cab, Omnibus, motorcar, lorry and
       other public or private conveyance proprietors, job masters, Omnibus, motor car, lorry
       motor cycle or other vehicle manufacturers and repairers, garage builders, dealers in
       Motor accessories of all kinds, motor and mechanical engineers, dealers in oil and
       petroleum products of all kinds, carriers and hirers of vehicles of all description.

6.     To purchase for investment or resale and to traffic in land and house and other property
       of any tenure and any interest therein and to create, sell and to deal in freehold/leasehold
       ground rents and to make advances upon the security of land or houses or other property
       or any interest therein and generally to deal in or traffic by way of sale, lease, exchange
       or otherwise with land and house property and any other property whether real or
       personal.

7.     To own, purchase, take on lease, hire or exchange or otherwise acquire any estate, land,
       Tea Garden, orchards, groves, plantations and dairy farms and to carry on business as
       cultivators, growers, producers, planters, manufactures, buyers, sellers, dealers,
       importers, “exporters, agents, brokers. Traders or stockiest of tea, coffee, cocoa,
       cinchona, rubber, bamboo, timber, fruits, vegetables, coconuts, spices; cardamom, jute,
       hemp, cotton, sugarcane, linseed. Oil-seeds, wheat and other grains and any kind of
       horticulture, sericulture or agricultural product or products.

8.     To carry on the business of import, export, distributors of all merchandise and to act as
       agents, stockists. Distributors for firms and companies in India and abroad.

 IV.     The liability of the members of the Company is limited.

     V. The Authorised share capital of the Company is Rs.1500,00,00,000/-( Rupees Fifteen
        Hundred Crore Only) divided into 150,00,00,000 No.s (One hundred and Fifty Crores
        only) Equity shares of Rs.10/- (Rupees ten only) each. The company shall have power
        to increase or reduce the capital and to issue any shares with special rights or
        privileges as to voting, dividend, and repayment of capital or otherwise or to subject
        the share to any restriction, limitation and conditions and to vary, modify or abrogate
        any such rights, privileges restrictions or conditions. The rights of the holders of any
        class of shares for the time being forming part of the capital of the Company may be
        modified, affected, varied, extended or surrendered.

       *Note: The Clause V was altered vide Ordinary Resolution passed at the 16th Annual
             General Meeting of Members duly convened on 30th September 2022 vide
             resolution No- 10.




                                                 9
VI. We, the several persons whose names and addresses have been subscribed hereunder are
    desirous of being formed into a Company in pursuance of the Memorandum of Association
    and we respectively agree to take the number of shares in the capital of the Company set
    opposite to our respective names:

 Sl.               Name, Address, description and            Number of Equity         Name, address,
 No.                 occupation and signatures              shares taken by each       description,
                          of subscribers                         subscriber           occupation &
                                                                                   signature of witness
 1.    PAMI PICHI REDDY                                           22,850
       S/o. P. KRISHNA REDDY                                  (Twenty Two
       PLOT No.46, PAVAN VIHAR COLONY, BOWENPALLY,           Thousand Eight
       SECUNDERABAD – 500 011                               Hundred Fifty Only)
       OCCUPATION: BUSINESS, D.O.B:01.10.1957 Sd/-
                                                                  21,000
 2.    P.V.KRISHNA REDDY                                       (Twenty One
       S/o. P. VEERA REDDY                                    Thousand only)
       PLOT No.46, ROAD No.72, PRASHASHAN NAGAR,
       JUBILEE HILLS, HYDERABAD.
       OCCUPATION: BUSINESS, D.O.B:30.06.1969 Sd/-
                                                                   2,500
 3.    PAMI REDDY RAMA                                      (Two Thousand Five
       W/o. P.PICHI REDDY                                     Hundred Only)
       PLOT No.46, PAVAN VIHAR COLONY, BOWENPALLY,
       SECUNDERABAD – 500 011
       OCCUPATION: HOUSE WIFE, D.O.B:28.05.1967 Sd/-               2,500




                                                                                        CHENIMINENI NAGARJUNA RAO




                                                                                                                                     Occ: Chartered Accountant M.No.25835
                                                            (Two Thousand Five




                                                                                                              B-115, KRISHNA APARTMENTS
 4.    P. SUDHA                                               Hundred Only)




                                                                                                                 S/o. C. SIDDAMA NAIDU
       W/o. P.V. KRISHNA REDDY




                                                                                                                   YELLAREDDYGUDA
                                                                                                                                              Hyderabad-500 073.
       PLOT No.46, ROAD No.72, PRASHASHAN NAGAR,
       JUBILEE HILLS, HYDERABAD.                                   1000
       OCCUPATION: HOUSE WIFE, D.O.B:10.12.1978 Sd/-        (One Thousand Only)




                                                                                     Sd/-
       PAMI MANJALI REDDY
 5.    D/o. P.PICHI REDDY
       PLOT No.46, PAVAN VIHAR COLONY, BOWENPALLY,                  50
       SECUNDERABAD – 500 011                                   (Fifty Only)
       OCCUPATION: STUDENT, D.O.B:12.01.1986 Sd/-

       PEKETI RAJESH REDDY
 6.    S/o. P.NAGESWARA REDDY
       PLOT NO.26, PAVAN VIHAR COLONY, BOWENPALLY
       SECUNDERABAD – 500 011
       OCCUPATION: SERVICE, D.O.B:12.06.1979 Sd/-
                                                                    50
                                                                (Fifty Only)
       PURITIPATI VENKATA SUBBA REDDY
       S/o. P. VEERA REDDY
 7.    PLOT No. 26, VAITHA CO-OP SOCIETY, NEW BOWENPALLY,
       SECUNDERABAD – 500 011
       OCCUPATION: BUSINESS, D.O.B:10.06.1975   Sd/-                50
                                                                (Fifty Only)
       PEDDINTI RAJA REDDY
       S/o. P. BUTCHI REDDY
       PLOT No.37, I A COLONY (PAVAN VIHAR COLONY),
 8.    BOWENPALLY, SECUNDERABAD – 500 011.
       OCCUPATION: SERVICE, D.O.B:01.02.1969   Sd/-
       TOTAL NO. OF EQUITY SHARES TAKEN                            50000
                                                              (Fifty Thousand
                                                                    only)


Date: 22.05.2006
Place: Hyderabad


                                                10
