# Common Cause electoral-bonds investigation petitions — 2 August 2024

Original URL: https://api.sci.gov.in/supremecourt/2024/17622/17622_2024_1_30_54391_Order_02-Aug-2024.pdf
Decision/publication date: 2024-08-02
Retrieved: 2026-10-06 UTC
Original SHA-256: 223e77a4003bf35fa53942f915815a05561eaf245337c6f2bdc1e66cda8db2ee
Original pages: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 (one-based).

This is a labelled extraction, not a substitute for the complete original.

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 1
1
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL/CRIMINAL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO 266 OF 2024
Common Cause & Anr … Petitioners
Versus
Union of India … Respondent
WITH 
WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO 421 OF 2024
WRIT PETITION (CRIMINAL) NO 293 OF 2024
AND
WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO 450 OF 2024
O R D E R
1 A  batch  of  four  petitions  has  been  instituted  before  this  Court  invoking  its
jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution.
2 In Association for Democratic Reforms & Anr Vs. Union of India & Ors 1, a
Constitution Bench of this Court struck down the Electoral Bond Scheme and
provisions in cognate legislation including those Representation of the People
Act 1951, the Companies Act 2017 and the Income Tax Act, 1961 as being ultra
vires and unconstitutional.  The conclusions of this Court were in the following
terms:
“216. In view of the discussion above, the following are our
conclusions: 
a. The  Electoral  Bond  Scheme,  the  proviso  to
Section  29C(1)  of  the  Representation  of  the
People Act 1951 (as amended by Section 137 of
1 (2024) 2 SCR 420 : 2024 INSC 113 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 2
2
Finance  Act  2017),  Section  182(3)  of  the
Companies Act (as amended by Section 154 of
the Finance Act 2017), and Section 13A(b) (as
amended by Section 11 of Finance Act 2017) are
violative of Article 19(1)(a) and unconstitutional;
and 
b. The deletion of the proviso to Section 182(1) of
the  Companies  Act  permitting  unlimited
corporate  contributions  to  political  parties  is
arbitrary and violative of Article 14.”
3 Consequential to the above conclusions, the directions that were issued by the
Constitution Bench read thus :
“219. In  view  of  our  discussion  above,  the  following
directions are issued: 
a. The  issuing  bank  shall  herewith  stop  the
issuance of Electoral Bonds; 
b. SBI shall submit details of the Electoral Bonds
purchased since the interim order of this Court
dated  12  April  2019  till  date  to  the  ECI.  The
details  shall  include  the  date  of  purchase  of
each Electoral Bond, the name of the purchaser
of  the  bond  and  the  denomination  of  the
Electoral Bond purchased; 
c. SBI shall submit the details of political parties
which  have  received  contributions  through
Electoral Bonds since the interim order of this
Court dated 12 April 2019 till date to the ECI.
SBI must disclose details of each Electoral Bond
encashed by political parties which shall include
the date of encashment and the denomination
of the Electoral Bond;
d. SBI shall submit the above information to the
ECI  within  three  weeks  from  the  date  of  this
judgment, that is, by 6 March 2024;
e. The ECI shall publish the information shared by
the SBI on its official website within one week of
the  receipt  of  the  information,  that  is,  by  13
March 2024; and 
f. Electoral  Bonds  which  are  within  the  validity
period of fifteen days but that which have not
been encashed by the political party yet shall be

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 3
3
returned by the political party or the purchaser
depending on who is in possession of the bond
to the issuing bank. The issuing bank, upon the
return of the valid bond, shall refund the amount
to the purchaser’s account.”
4 Thereafter, orders were passed by this Court on 11 March 2024 and 18 March
2024 to give effect to the directions for disclosure.
5 The four petitions, invoking the jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution,
have  been  instituted  by  (i)  Common  Cause  and  Centre  for  Public  Interest
Litigation;  (ii)  Jai  Prakash  Sharma,  a  petitiner-in-person;  (iii)  Sudip  Narayan
Tamankar; and (iv) Khem Singh Bhati.
6 The reliefs which have been sought in these petitions are briefly summarised
below :
(i) Writ Petition (Civil) No 266 of 2024
(a) A court monitored investigation by a Special Investigating Team (SIT) into
the quid pro quo arrangements between public servants, political parties,
company official and officials of the investigative agencies, as disclosed
by the electoral bond data (Prayer (a));
(b) A direction to the authorities to investigate the source of funding of shell
companies/loss-making  companies  to  various  political  parties  (Prayer
(b));
(c) A direction to the authorities to recover the amounts from political parties
where they are found to be proceeds of crime (Prayer (c)); and
(d) A direction for an investigation into the violation of Section 182(1) of the
Companies  Act  2013  by  companies  which  donated  through  electoral
bonds within three years  of their incorporation  and the imposition of

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 4
4
penalties (prayer (d)).
(ii) Writ Petition (Civil) No 421 of 2024
(a) A direction to the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India and Chairperson,
State Bank of India to collect information from banks for disclosing the
entities which had taken loans to purchase electoral bonds and to make
these details public on the website of the Election Commission of India.
(iii) Writ Petition (Criminal) No 293 of 2024
(a) A court monitored investigation by an SIT or by the Central Bureau of
Investigation into the misuse of the Electoral Bond Scheme under the
Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (prayer (a)); and
(b) An investigation into the complaint lodged by the petitioner on 18 April
2024 and the instances of corruption disclosed by the electoral bond data
of the Election Commission of India (prayer (b)).
(iv) Writ Petition (Civil) No 450 of 2024
(a) A direction to the Union of India to confiscate the amount received by the
political parties under the Electoral Bond Scheme 2018 (Prayer (a));
(b) Constitution of a Committee headed by a former Judge of the Supreme
Court of India to investigate into the illegal benefits conferred on donors
by the public authorities by way of quid pro quo (Prayer (b)); 
(c) Directing income tax authorities to reopen the assessment of political
parties from financial year 2018-2019 to financial year 2023-2024 and
disallow  income  tax  exemptions  claimed  by  way  of  electoral  bonds

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 5
5
(prayer(c)).
7 We have heard Mr Vijay Hansaria, senior counsel, Mr Prashant Bhushan and Mr
Pranav Sachdeva counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners.
8 In support of the petitions, it has been urged that the disclosure of data which
followed  upon  the  judgment  of  the  Constitution  Bench  has  revealed
arrangements in the nature of quid pro quo between the donors of electoral
bonds and the recipients, who are political parties, in regard to the award of
contracts and other benefits.  
9 On  this  basis,  it  has  been  submitted  that  this  needs  to  be  probed  by  the
constitution of an SIT since no investigation under normal legal processes will
reach to any conclusion or carry credibility.  It has been urged that there is a
likelihood that some officials of the investigative agencies were involved in the
underlying arrangements and hence an independent investigation outside the
purview of the normal process of law should be ordered by this Court.  Hence, it
has been urged that the appropriate course of action would be for this Court to
constitute an SIT for a court monitored investigation.  
10 While evaluating whether these petitions invoking the jurisdiction of this Court
under Article 32 of the Constitution should be entertained, it is necessary to
preface this consideration with the observation that on the date of the purchase
of the electoral bonds, there was a statutory enactment of Parliament permitting
the purchase of electoral bonds and envisaging donations to political parties
through the instrument of electoral bonds.  The purchase of electoral bonds and
the donations which were made to political parties were on the basis of a law
enacted by Parliament.  The provisions of the statute have since been held to be

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 6
6
unconstitutional.  
11 The issue to be decided is whether the underlying reasons for the donations to
political parties should be subjected to a court monitored investigation under an
SIT.
12 The petitions are founded on two assumptions :
(i) An assumption that there would  prima facie  be an element of quid pro
quo  where  the  date  of  the  purchase  of  the  electoral  bonds  and  the
donation to a political party is in proximity to the award of a contract or a
change in policy; and 
(ii) An assumption that there is an involvement of certain officials of the
investigative agencies, as a consequence of which, an investigation under
the normal processes of the law would not be fair or independent.
13 We have highlighted above the underlying premise of the submissions.  This
indicates that these are assumptions at the present stage and require the court
to embark upon a roving enquiry into the purchase of the electoral bonds, the
donations which were made to political parties and the arrangements in the
nature of quid pro quo.  
14 The submissions which have been urged on behalf of the petitioners highlight
that even according to them, an element of criminality may be involved where
there is a proximate relationship between the purchase and the contribution of
the bond and the award of a contract or change in policy, as the case may be, or
commission or omission, as the case may be, by the authorities.
15 Individual grievances of this nature in regard to the presence or absence of quid

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 7
7
pro quo would have to be pursued on the basis of the remedies available under
the law.  Likewise, where there is a refusal to investigate or a closure report has
been  filed,  recourse  can  be  taken  to  appropriate  remedies  under  the  law
governing  criminal  procedure  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  Article  226  of  the
Constitution.
16 At the present stage, absent a recourse to the remedies which are available
under  the  law  to  pursue  such  grievances,  it  would  both  be  premature  and
inappropriate for this Court; premature because the intervention of this Court
under Article 32 of the Constitution must be preceded by the invocation of
normal  remedies  under  the  law  and  contingent  upon  the  failure  of  those
remedies;  and  inappropriate  because  the  intervention  of  this  Court,  at  the
present stage, would postulate that the normal remedies which are available
under the law would not be efficacious.  
17 This Court entertained a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity
of  statutory  provisions  embodying  the  Electoral  Bond  Scheme  and  the
consequential amendments which were made to diverse statutes.  The only
remedy for challenging such legislative changes lies in the invocation of the
power of judicial review.  Allegations involving criminal wrong doing, on the
other hand, are of a distinct nature where recourse to the jurisdiction of this
Court under Article 32 of the Constitution should not be taken as a matter of
course particularly, in view of the remedies available in law.  
18 The other reliefs which have been sought in the batch of petitions, including a
direction to the authorities to make recoveries from political parties on the basis
that they are proceeds of crime or for the reopening of income tax assessments
impinge upon the statutory functions of authorities constituted under the law to

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 8
8
make enquiries in that regard.  For instance, before an assessment is reopened,
the Assessing Officer under the Income Tax Act, 1961 has to form a subjective
opinion on the basis of tangible material that income subject to tax has escaped
assessment.  There are statutory functions to be exercised on a case to case
basis by the Assessing Officer.
19 For the above reasons, we are of the considered view that the constitution of an
SIT headed by a former Judge of this Court or otherwise should not be ordered in
the face of remedies which are available under the law governing the criminal
procedure.  Likewise, matters, such as the reopening of assessments pertain to
the specific statutory jurisdiction conferred upon assessing authorities under the
Income Tax Act 1961 and other statutes.  
20 For all these reasons, we decline to exercise the jurisdiction under Article 32 of
the Constitution.
21 The Writ Petitions are accordingly dismissed.
22 Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.
…...…...….......………………....…CJI.
[Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud] 
…...…...….......………………....…..J.
[J B Pardiwala]
…...…...….......………………....…..J.
[Manoj Misra]
New Delhi; 
August 02, 2024GKA

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 9
9
ITEM NO.30+32+34+36             COURT NO.1           SECTION PIL-W
               S U P R E M E  C O U R T  O F  I N D I A
                       RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS
Writ Petition(s)(Civil) No(s).266/2024
COMMON CAUSE & ANR.                                Petitioner(s)
                                VERSUS
UNION OF INDIA                                     Respondent(s)
(FOR ADMISSION )
WITH
W.P. (Civil)  No(s).  421/2024 (PIL-W)
(FOR ADMISSION and IA No.140863/2024-PERMISSION TO APPEAR AND ARGUE
IN PERSON)
W.P. (Criminal)  No(s).  293/2024
(FOR ADMISSION)
W.P. (Civil) No(s).  450/2024 (PIL-W)
(FOR ADMISSION)
Date : 02-08-2024 This petition was called on for hearing today.
CORAM :  HON'BLE THE CHIEF JUSTICE
         HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE J.B. PARDIWALA
         HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE MANOJ MISRA
For Petitioner(s)  Mr. Prashant Bhushan, AOR
                   Ms. Neha Rathi, Adv.
                   Mr. Kamal Kishore, Adv.
                   Ms. Kajal Giri, Adv.
                   Petitioner-in-person
                   Mr. Pranav Sachdeva, AOR
                   Mr. Abhay Nair, Adv.
                   Mr. Jatin Bhardwaj, Adv.

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 10
10
                   Mr. Vijay Hansaria, Sr. Adv.
                   Mr. Jayesh K. Unnikrishnan, AOR
                   Ms. Kavya Jhawar, Adv.
                   Ms. Nandini Rai, Adv.
                   Dr. Menaka Guruswamy, Sr. Adv.
                   Mr. Pranav Sachdeva, AOR
                   Mr. Abhay Nair, Adv.
                   Ms. Arunima Das, Adv.
                   Mr. Utkarsh Pratap, Adv.
                   Mr. Jatin Bhardwaj, Adv.
                     
For Respondent(s)                    
UPON hearing the counsel the Court made the following
                              O R D E R
1 The Writ Petitions are dismissed in terms of the signed order.
2 Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.
  (GULSHAN KUMAR ARORA)                     (SAROJ KUMARI GAUR)
  AR-CUM-PS ASSISTANT REGISTRAR
(Signed order is placed on the file)