# PM CARES / NDRF fund-transfer judgment — W.P.(C) 546/2020

Original URL: https://api.sci.gov.in/supremecourt/2020/12392/12392_2020_35_1501_23456_Judgement_18-Aug-2020.pdf
Decision/publication date: 2020-08-18
Retrieved: 2026-10-06 UTC
Original SHA-256: d6e779d4ed6bbc8cf2301d13845645fe317b7867d99c048aca94233fb056af8c
Original pages: 1, 13, 14, 20, 21, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75 (one-based).

This is a labelled extraction, not a substitute for the complete original.

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 1
1
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO.546 OF 2020
CENTRE FOR PUBLIC 
INTEREST LITIGATION        ...PETITIONER(S)
VERSUS
UNION OF INDIA        ...RESPONDENT(S)
J U D G M E N T
ASHOK BHUSHAN, J.
From the beginning of this year, 2020, the world
including our country is in the grip of a pandemic
known  as  Novel  Coronavirus  (COVID-19).   On
31.12.2019,  a  cluster  of  cases  of  pneumonia  of
unknown cause in the city of Wuhan, Hubei Province in
China was reported to the World Health Organisation
(WHO).  This was subsequently identified as a new
virus in January, 2020 and over the following months,
the number of cases continued to rise but were not

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 13
13
pandemic  and  has  no  mention  of  measures  like
lockdown, containment zones, social distancing etc.
The Central Government has notified COVID-19 as a
“disaster” under Act, 2005 and has issued series of
notifications  to  contain  the  instant  pandemic.
Petitioner pleads that Centre need to prepare a well-
drawn National Plan to deal with instant pandemic and
the same need to be prepared after due consultation
with the State Government and experts.  Petitioner
further  pleads  that  Centre  should  come  up  with
detailed  guidelines  recommending  the  minimum
standards of relief to be provided in the relief
camps in relation to shelter, food, drinking water,
medical cover and sanitation, in absence of which,
shelter homes and relief camps are susceptible of
becoming  hotbeds  for  the  spread  of  COVID-19
infection.  Petitioner pleads that Centre should come
up with detailed guidelines under Section 12(ii) and
(iii)  of  the  Act,  2005  recommending  special
provisions to be made for widows and orphans and ex

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 14
14
gratia to be provided to the kith and kin of those
losing life not just because of COVID-19 infection
but also due to harsh lockdown restrictions. 
13. The  petitioner’s  case  further  is  that  the
grants/contributions by individuals and institutions
should  be  credited  into  the  National  Disaster
Response Fund (NDRF) under Section 46 of the Act,
2005 and NDRF should be utilized for meeting the
ongoing COVID-19 crisis.  All the contributions made
by the individuals and institutions in relation to
COVID-19 are being credited into the PM CARES Fund
and not in NDRF, which is clear violation of Section
46 of the Act, 2005.  The NDRF is subject to CAG
Audit and PM CARES Fund is not subject to CAG Audit.
Petitioner’s case further is that the Centre may be
directed to utilize NDRF for the purpose of drawing
assistance to fight against COVID-19 and all the
contributions/grants  from  individuals  and
institutions be credited to the NDRF in terms of

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 20
20
constituted by Central Government, all amount given
by individuals and organisations for disaster should
have been credited in NDRF.  He submits that PM CARES
Fund should not have been constituted when NDRF is
already in place to take care of disasters.  Shri
Dave submits that there is no provision in 2019 Plan
to give fund to NDRF.  Referring to Operational
Guidelines for Constitution and Administration of the
National Disaster Response Fund at page 129 of the
writ petition, Shri Dave submits that paragraph 5.5
provides that contribution made by the persons or
institutions for the purpose of disaster management
to be credited in the NDRF, which clause 5.5 has been
omitted in the subsequent Operational Guidelines for
Constitution  and  Administration  of  the  National
Disaster Response Fund filed at page 154, which is
recent guidelines.  By deletion of clause 5.5 now
contribution by any person or institution for the
purpose of disaster management to the NDRF is not
permissible.  Shri Dave submits that petitioners have

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 21
21
no reason to doubt the bonafide of PM CARES Fund but
by  creating  PM  CARES  Fund  the  NDRF  is  being
circumvented.  What cannot be done directly cannot be
done indirectly.  Although, NDRF is audited by CAG,
the  PM  CARES  Fund  is  audited  by  only  private
auditors.    
17. Shri  Tushar  Mehta,  learned  Solicitor  General
refuting the submissions of the counsel for the
petitioners submits that reliefs (i) and (ii) made in
the  writ  petition  has  become  infructuous  since
National Plan has already been prepared under Section
11,  which  has  been  referred  to  in  the  counter
affidavit  and  relevant  extract  of  the  Plan  has
already been brought on record as Annexure R-1 along
with counter affidavit.  He submits that insofar as
the guidelines for minimum standards of reliefs are
concerned, there are guidelines in existence, which
has been brought on record by the counter affidavit,
which covers all disasters including COVID-19.  Shri

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 58
58
5.4 During the years 2015-20 transfers to
the NDRF established in the Public
Account  of  India  will  be  made  by
operating  the  following  heads  of
account: Major Head “2245-Relief on
account of Natural Calamities – 80-
General-797-Transfers to Reserve Funds
and  Deposit  Account’-Transfer  to
National Disaster Response Fund.”
57. The above is the scheme. As per paragraph 10 of
the new guidelines, expenditure from NDRF is meant to
assist a State to provide immediate relief in those
cases  of  severe  calamity,  where  the  expenditure
required is in excess of the balance in the State’s
SDRF. The NDRF is a statutory fund required to be
audited by the Comptroller & Auditor General of
India, which was constituted under Act, 2005 and is
still in existence for the purposes as enumerated in
the statute as well as in the guidelines issued under
Act, 2005. 
58. We may now notice the PM CARES Fund. Petitioner
has brought on record certain details of PM CARES
Fund as Annexure-P13. The details about the PM CARES

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 59
59
Fund as brought on record as Annexure-P13 of the writ
petition are as follows:
“Keeping in mind the need for having a
dedicated national fund with the primary
objective  of  dealing  with  any  kind  of
emergency  or  distress  situation,  like
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to
provide relief to the affected, a public
charitable trust under the name of ‘Prime
Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief
in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES
Fund)’ has been set up. 
Click here to Donate Online.
Objectives :
•  To  undertake  and  support  relief  or
assistance  of  any  kind  relating  to  a
public health emergency or any other kind
of emergency, calamity or distress, either
man-made  or  natural,  including  the
creation or upgradation of healthcare or
pharmaceutical facilities, other necessary
infrastructure, funding relevant research
or any other type of support.
• To render financial assistance, provide
grants of payments of money or take such
other steps as may be deemed necessary by
the  Board  of  Trustees  to  the  affected
population.
• To undertake any other activity, which
is  not  inconsistent  with  the  above
Objects.

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 60
60
Constitution of the Trust :
•  Prime  Minister  is  the  ex-officio
Chairman of the PM CARES Fund and Minister
of Defence, Minister of Home Affairs and
Minister of Finance, Government of India
are ex-officio Trustees of the Fund.
• The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees
(Prime Minister) shall have the power to
nominate three trustees to the Board of
Trustees who shall be eminent persons in
the field of research, health, science,
social  work,  law,  public  administration
and philanthropy.
• Any person appointed a Trustee shall act
in a pro bono capacity.
Other details :
• The fund consists entirely of voluntary
contributions  from  individuals/
organizations  and  does  not  get  any
budgetary  support.  The  fund  will  be
utilised  in  meeting  the  objectives  as
stated above.
• Donations to PM CARES Fund would qualify
for 80G benefits for 100% exemption under
the Income Tax Act, 1961. Donations to PM
CARES Fund will also qualify to be counted
as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
expenditure under the Companies Act, 2013
• PM CARES Fund has also got exemption
under the FCRA and a separate account for
receiving  foreign  donations  has  been
opened.  This  enables  PM  CARES  Fund  to

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 61
61
accept  donations  and  contributions  from
individuals  and  organizations  based  in
foreign countries. This is consistent with
respect  to  Prime  Minister’s  National
Relief  Fund  (PMNRF).  PMNRF  has  also
received foreign contributions as a public
trust since 2011.
CLICK HERE TO DONATE ONLINE”
59. From the above details, it is clear that PM CARES
Fund has been constituted as a  public charitable
trust. After outbreak of pandemic COVID-19, need of
having a dedicated national fund with objective of
dealing  with  any  kind  of  emergency  or  distress
situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and
to provide relief to the affected, a fund was created
by constituting a trust with Prime Minister as an ex-
officio Chairman of PM CARES Fund, with other ex-
officio and nominated Trustees of the Fund. The PM
CARES  Fund  consists  entirely  of  voluntary
contributions from individuals/organisations and does
not get any Budgetary support. No Government money is
credited in the PM CARES Fund. 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 62
62
60. After noticing constitution of NDRF as well as PM
CARES Fund now we may notice the contentions raised
by Shri Dave. The submission of Shri Dave is that the
earlier guidelines for administration of NDRF which
came into force with effect from financial year 2010-
11 have been modified by new guidelines with effect
from  financial year  2015-16, and  now it  is not
possible  for  any  person  or  institution  to  make
contribution to the NDRF. Shri Dave submits that
paragraph 5.5 of earlier guidelines has been deleted
to  benefit  the  PM  CARES  Fund  so  that  all
contributions by any person or institution should go
in the PM CARES Fund. Shri Dave submits that deletion
of paragraph 5.5 of earlier guidelines (at page 130)
in the new guidelines (at page 154-155) makes it
clear that now it is not possible for any person or
institution to make any contribution to NDRF. 
61. There are two reasons for not accepting the above
submission.  Firstly,  paragraph  5.5  of  earlier
guidelines which contemplated contributions by any

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 63
63
person or institution for the purpose of disaster
management to the NDRF are very much still there in
the new guidelines, which have come into force with
effect from financial year 2015-16. New guidelines
contain the same heading, i.e., “Contribution to the
NDRF” and guideline 5.2 provides “Funds will be
credited  into  the  NDRF  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Section 46(1)(a) & (b) of the
Disaster Management Act, 2005.” The above guideline
5.2 specifically referred to Section 46(1)(a) & (b)
and Section 46(1)(b) expressly provides that any
grants that may be made by any person or institution
for the purpose of disaster management shall be
credited into the NDRF. The submission that after the
new guidelines, it is not possible for any person or
institution to make any contribution to the NDRF is,
thus, misconceived and incorrect. According to the
statutory provisions of Section 46 as well as new
guidelines enforced with effect from financial year

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 69
69
66. Further as observed above, it is for the Central
Government to take the decision as from which fund
what financial measures are to be taken and it is
neither  for  PIL  petitioner  to  claim  that  any
financial assistance be made from particular fund nor
this Court to sit in judgment over the financial
decisions of the Central Government.
67. The PM CARES Fund is a public charitable trust
and is not a Government fund. The charitable trusts
are public trusts. Black’s Law Dictionary, Tenth
Edition defines charitable trust in following words:
“charitable  trust.  A  trust  created  to
benefit  a  specific  charity,  specific
charities, or the general public rather
than  a  private  individual  or  entity.
Charitable trusts are often eligible for
favorable tax treatment.”
68. The mere fact that administration of the Trust is
vested in trustees, i.e., a group of people, will not

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 70
70
itself take away the public character of the Trust as
has been laid down in Mulla Gulam Ali & Safiabai D.
Trust Vs. Deelip Kumar & Co., (2003) 11 SCC 772. In
paragraph 4, this Court laid down:
“4. The mere fact that the control in
respect of the administration of the Trust
vested  in  a  group  of  people  will  not
itself take away the public character of
the Trust……………………………..”
 
69. The  contributions  made  by  individuals  and
institutions in the PM CARES Fund are to be released
for public purpose to fulfill the objective of the
trust.  The PM  CARES Fund  is a  charitable trust
registered under the Registration Act, 1908 at New
Delhi on 27.03.2020. The trust does not receive any
Budgetary support or any Government money. It is not
open for the petitioner to question the wisdom of
trustees  to  create  PM  CARES  fund  which  was
constituted with an objective to extend assistance in
the wake of public health emergency that is pandemic
COVID-19. 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 71
71
70. Shri Dave during submissions has fairly submitted
that  he  is  not  questioning  the  bona  fide  of
constitution of PM CARES Fund.  His submission is
that NDRF is audited by CAG but PM CARES Fund is not
audited  by  CAG  rather  by  a  private  Chartered
Accountant. The nature of NDRF and PM CARES Fund are
entirely different. The guidelines issued under Act,
2005 with regard to NDRF specifically provides for
audit  of the  NDRF by  the Comptroller  & Auditor
General of India whereas for public charitable trust
there is no occasion for audit by the Comptroller &
Auditor General of India. 
71. We may notice one more aspect with regard to
COVID-19. We have noticed above that guidelines which
were issued for constitution and administration of
NDRF  and  State’s  SDRMF,  the  guidelines  provided
utilization of fund for limited calamities, which did
not  include  any  biological  and  public  health
emergency. We have already noticed Clause 3.1 of

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 72
72
guidelines for administration of NDRF, which did not
provide for the calamities which cover the biological
and  public  health  emergency.  Thus,  under  the
guidelines which were in existence with effect from
financial year 2015-16 neither NDRF nor SDRF covered
the biological and public health emergencies.  It was
only by notification dated 14.03.2020 that COVID-19
was treated as notified disaster for the purpose of
providing assistance under SDRF. Obviously prior to
this notification dated 14.03.2020 no contribution by
any person or institution in the NDRF could have been
made with respect to specified disaster, namely,
biological and public health emergency like COVID-19,
Outbreak  of COVID-19  in India  as well  as other
countries of the World required immediate enhancement
in the infrastructure of medical health and creation
of fund to contain COVID-19. At this need of the hour
no exception can be taken to the constitution of a
public charitable trust, namely, PM CARES Fund to

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 73
73
have  necessary  financial  resources  to  meet  the
emergent situation.
 
72. The NDRF and PM CARES Fund are two entirely
different funds with different object and purpose. In
view of the foregoing discussions, we answer question
Nos.3, 4 and 5 in following manner:
Answer 3. The Union of India can very well
utilize the NDRF for providing assistance in the
fight of COVID-19 pandemic by way of releasing
fund on the request of the States as per new
guidelines. 
Answer  4.  Any  contribution,  grant  of  any
individual or institution is not prohibited to be
credited into the NDRF and it is still open for
any person or institution to make contribution to
the NDRF in terms of Section 46(1)(b) of the Act,
2005. The contribution by any person or by any

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 74
74
institution in PM CARES Fund is voluntary and it
is open for any person or institution to make
contribution to the PM CARES Fund.
Answer 5. The funds collected in the PM CARES
Fund are entirely different funds which are funds
of a public charitable trust and there is no
occasion for issuing any direction to transfer
the said funds to the NDRF. 
73. In view of the foregoing discussions, the prayer
‘a’ and ‘b’ made in the writ petition are refused.
With respect to prayer ‘c’, we make it clear (i) that
there is no statutory prohibition for the Union of
India utilizing the NDRF for providing assistance in
the  fight  of  COVID-19  in  accordance  with  the
guidelines issued for administration of NDRF; (ii)
there is no statutory prohibition in making any
contribution by any person or institution in the NDRF
as per Section 46(1)(b)of the Act, 2005. 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 75
75
74. The prayer of the petitioner to direct all the
funds collected in the PM CARES Fund till date to be
transferred to the NDRF is refused. 
75. Subject to clarification of law as made above,
the writ petition is dismissed. 
......................J.
                                 ( ASHOK BHUSHAN )
......................J.
                                ( R. SUBHASH REDDY )
......................J.
                                   ( M.R. SHAH )
New Delhi,
August 18, 2020.