# Sita Soren legislative-immunity reference — 2024 INSC 161

Original URL: https://api.sci.gov.in/supremecourt/2014/10177/10177_2014_1_1501_51211_Judgement_04-Mar-2024.pdf
Decision/publication date: 2024-03-04
Retrieved: 2026-10-06 UTC
Original SHA-256: 852b142c7f12258cec31d9ed2d6f8ad366ff12130da65f0486424bb35450ba38
Original pages: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135 (one-based).

This is a labelled extraction, not a substitute for the complete original.

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 1
2024 INSC 161
Page 1 of 135 
 
Reportable  
 
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 
 
 
Criminal Appeal No. 451 of 2019 
 
 
 
Sita Soren         …Appellant  
 
 
Versus 
 
Union of India         …Respondent  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 2
Page 2 of 135 
 
J U D G M E N T 
 
Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 
Table of Contents 
 
A. Reference 4 
B. Overview of the judgment in PV Narasimha Rao 8 
C. Submissions 14 
D. Reconsidering PV Narasimha Rao does not violate the principle of 
stare decisis 22 
E. History of parliamentary privilege in India 34 
F. Purport of parliamentary privilege in India 44 
I. Functional analysis 44 
II. Parliamentary privilege as a collective right of the House 54 
III. Necessity test to claim and exercise a privilege 60 
G. Bribery is not protected by parliamentary privilege 65 
I. Bribery is not in respect of anything said or any vote given 65 
II. The Constitution envisions probity in public life 72 
III. Courts and the House exercise parallel jurisdiction over allegations of 
bribery 76 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 4
PART A  
Page 4 of 135 
 
1. Parliamentary privilege, codified in Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution, is 
integral to deliberative democracy in facilitating the functioning of a 
parliamentary form of governance. It ensures that legislators in whom citizens 
repose their faith can express their views and opinions on the floor of the House 
without ‘fear or favour ’. With the protection of parliamentary privilege, a 
legislator belonging to a political party with a minuscule vote share can 
fearlessly vote on any motion; a legislator from a remote region of the country 
can raise issues that impact her constituency without the fear of being harassed 
by legal prosecution; and a legislator can demand accountability without the 
apprehension of being accused of defamation. 
 
2. Would a legislator who receives a bribe to cast a vote in a certain direction or 
speak about certain issues be protected by parliamentary privilege? It is this  
question of constitutional interpretation that this Court is called upon to decide. 
A. Reference 
3. The Criminal Appeal arises from a judgment  dated 17 February 2014 of the 
High Court of Jharkhand.
1 An election was held on 30 March 2012 to elect two 
members of the Rajya Sabha representing the State of Jharkhand. The 
appellant, belonging to the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, 2 was a member of the 
Legislative Assembly of Jharkhand. The allegation against the appellant is that 
she accepted a bribe from an independent candidate for casting her vote in his 
favour. However, as borne out from the open balloting for the Rajya Sabha seat, 
 
1 Writ Petition (Criminal) No 128 of 2013.  
2 “JMM” 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 5
PART A  
Page 5 of 135 
 
she did not cast her vote in favour of the alleged bribe giver and instead cast 
her vote in favour of a candidate belonging to her own party. The round of 
election in question was annulled and a fresh election was held where the 
appellant voted in favour of the candidate from her own party again. 
 
4. The appellant moved the High Court to quash the chargesheet and the criminal 
proceedings instituted against her. The appellant claimed protection under 
Article 194(2) of the Constitution, relying on the judgment  of the Constitu tion 
bench of this Court in PV Narasimha Rao v. State (CBI/SPE)3. The High Court 
declined to quash the criminal proceedings on the ground that the appellant had 
not cast her vote in favour of the alleged bribe giver and thus, is not entitled to 
the protection under Article 194(2). The High Court’s reasoning primarily turned 
on this Court’s decision in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). The controversy in PV 
Narasimha Rao (supra) and the present case turns on the interpretation of the 
provisions of Article 105(2) of the Constitution (which deals with the powers, 
privileges, and immunities of the members of Parliament and Parliamentary 
committees) and the equivalent provision in Article 194(2) of the Constitution 
which confers a similar immunity to the members of the State Legislatures. 
 
5. On 23 September 2014, a bench of two judges of this C ourt, before which the 
appeal was placed, was of the view that since the issue arising for consideration 
is “substantial and of general public importance”, it must be placed before a 
larger bench of three judges of this court. On 7 March 2019,  a bench of three 
judges which heard the appeal observed that the precise question was dealt 
 
3 (1998) 4 SCC 626.  

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 6
PART A  
Page 6 of 135 
 
with in a judgment of a five- judge bench in PV Narasimha Rao (supra). The 
bench was of the view that “having regard to the wide ramification of the 
question that has arisen, the doubts raised and the issue being a matter of 
public importance”, the matter must be referred to a larger bench.  
 
6. Finally, by an order dated 20 September 2023, a five-judge bench of this Court 
recorded prima facie reasons doubting the correctness of the decision in PV 
Narasimha Rao (supra) and referred the matter to a larger bench of seven 
judges. The operative part of the order reported as Sita Soren v. Union of 
India4, is extracted below:  
“24. We are inclined to agree …that the view which has 
been expressed in the decision of the majority in PV 
Narasimha Rao requires to be reconsidered by a larger 
Bench. Our reasons prima facie for doing so are 
formulated below: 
 
Firstly, the interpretation of Article 105(2) and the 
corresponding provisions of Article 194(2) of the 
Constitution must be guided by the text, context and the 
object and purpose underlying the provision. The 
fundamental purpose and object underlying Article 105(2) 
of the Constitution is that Members of Parliament, or as 
the case may be of the State Legislatures must be free 
to express their views on the floor of the House or to cast 
their votes either in the House or as members of the 
Committees of the H ouse without fear of consequences. 
While Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution recognises the 
individual right to the freedom of speech and expression, 
Article 105(2) institutionalises that right by recognising the 
importance of the Members of the Legislature having the 
freedom to express themselves and to cast their ballots 
without fear of reprisal or consequences. In other words, 
the object of Article 105(2) or Article 194(2) does not prima 
facie appear to be to render immunity from the launch of 
criminal proceedings for a violation of the criminal law 
which may arise independently of the exercise of the rights 
and duties as a Member of Parliament or of the legislature 
of a state; 
 
4 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1217. 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 7
PART A  
Page 7 of 135 
 
 
Secondly, in the course of judgment in PV Narasimha 
Rao, Justice S.C. Agarwal noted a serious anomaly if the 
construction in support of the immunity under Article 
105(2) for a bribe taker were to be accepted: a member 
would enjoy immunity from prosecution for such a charge 
if the member accepts the bribe for speaking or giving their 
vote in Parliament in a particular manner and in fact 
speaks or gives a vote in Parliament in that manner. On 
the other hand, no immunity would attach, and the 
member of the legislature would be liable to be prosecuted 
on a charge of bribery if they accept the bribe for not 
speaking or for not giving their vote on a matter under 
consideration before the House but they act to the 
contrary. This anomaly, Justice Agarwal observed, would 
be avoided if the words “in respect of” in Article 105(2) are 
construed to mean ‘arising out of’. In other words, in such 
a case, the immunity would be available only if the speech 
that has been made or the vote that has been given is an 
essential and integral part for the cause of action for the 
proceedings giving rise to the law; and 
 
Thirdly, the judgment of Justice SC Agarwal has 
specifically dwelt on the question as to when the offence 
of bribery would be complete. The judgment notes that the 
offence is complete with the acceptance of the money or 
on the agreement to accept the money  being concluded 
and is not dependent on the performance of the illegal 
promise by the receiver. The receiver of the bribe would 
be treated to have committed the offence even when he 
fails to perform the bargain underlying the tender and 
acceptance of the bribe. This aspect bearing on the 
constituent elements of the offence of a bribe finds 
elaboration in the judgment of Justice Agarwal but is not 
dealt with in the judgment of the majority. 
 
… 
 
26. For the above reasons, prima facie at this stage, we 
are of the considered view that the correctness of the view 
of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao should be 
reconsidered by a larger Bench of seven judges.” 
 
7. The scope of the present judgment is limited to the reference made by the order 
of this Court dated 20 September 2023 doubting the correctness of PV 
Narasimha Rao (supra). The merits of the appellant’s case  and  whether  she 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 131
PART J  
Page 131 of 135 
 
necessary for the dignity and efficient functioning of the state legislative 
assembly. Any other interpretation belies the text of Article 194(2) and the 
purpose of parliamentary privilege. Indeed, the protection under Articles 105 
and 194 has been colloquially called a “parliamentary privilege” and not 
“legislative privilege” for a reason. It cannot be restricted to only law-making on 
the floor of the House but extends to other powers and responsibilities of 
elected members, which take place in the Legislature or Parliament, even when 
the House is not sitting.  
J. Conclusion 
188. In the course of this judgment, while analysing the reasoning of the majority and 
minority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra) we have independently adjudicated on 
all the aspects of the controversy namely, whether by virtue of Articles 105 and 
194 of the Constitution a Member of Parliament or the Legislative Assembly, as 
the case may be, can claim immunity from prosecution on a charge of bribery 
in a criminal court. We disagree with and overrule the judgment of the majority 
on this aspect. Our conclusions are thus:  
 
188.1. The doctrine of stare decisis is not an inflexible rule of law. A larger 
bench of this Court may reconsider a previous decision in appropriate cases, 
bearing in mind the tests which have been formulated in the precedents of 
this Court. The judgment of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao (supra), which 
grants immunity from prosec ution to a member of the legislature who has 
allegedly engaged in bribery for casting a vote or speaking has wide 
ramifications on public interest, probity in public life and parliamentary 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 132
PART J  
Page 132 of 135 
 
democracy. There is a grave danger  of this Court allowing an error to be 
perpetuated if the decision were not reconsidered; 
 
188.2. Unlike the House of Commons in the UK, India does not have ‘ancient 
and undoubted’ privileges  which were vested after a struggle between 
Parliament and the King. Privileges in pre-independence India were governed 
by statute  in the face of a reluctant colonial government. The statutory 
privilege transitioned to a constitutional privilege after the commencement of 
the Constitution; 
 
188.3. Whether a claim to privilege in a particular case conform s to the 
parameters of the Constitution is amenable to judicial review; 
 
188.4. An individual member of  the legislature cannot assert a claim of 
privilege to seek immunity under Articles 105 and 194 from prosecution on a 
charge of bribery in connection with a vote or speech in the legislature. Such 
a claim to immunity fails to  fulfil the twofold test that the claim is  tethered to 
the collective functioning of the House and that it is necessary to the 
discharge of the essential duties of a legislator; 
 
188.5. Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution seek to sustain  an 
environment in which debate and deliberation can take place within the 
legislature. This purpose is destroyed when a member is induced to vote or 
speak in a certain manner because of an act of bribery; 
 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 133
PART J  
Page 133 of 135 
 
188.6. The expressions “anything” and “any” must be read in the context of 
the accompanying expressions in Articles 105(2) and 194(2) . The words “in 
respect of” means ‘arising out of’ or ‘bearing a clear relation to’ and cannot be 
interpreted to mean anything which may have even a remote connection with 
the speech or vote given; 
 
 
188.7. Bribery is not rendered immune under Article 105(2)  and the 
corresponding provision of Article 194 because a member engaging in bribery 
commits a crime which is not essential to the casting of the vote or the ability 
to decide on how the vote should be cast. The same principle applies to 
bribery in connection with a speech in the House or a Committee;  
 
188.8. Corruption and bribery by members of the legislatures erode probity 
in public life; 
 
188.9. The jurisdiction which is exercised by a competent court to prosecute 
a criminal offence and the authority of the House to take action for a breach 
of discipline  in relation to the acceptance of a bribe by a  member of the  
legislature exist in distinct spheres. The scope, purpose and consequences 
of the  court exercising jurisdiction in relation to a criminal offence and the 
authority of the House to discipline its members are different;  
 
188.10. The potential of misuse against individual members of the legislature 
is neither enhanced nor diminished by recognizing the jurisdiction of the court 
to prosecute a member of the legislature who is alleged to have indulged in 
an act of bribery;  

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 134
PART J  
Page 134 of 135 
 
 
188.11. The offence of bribery is agnostic to the performance of the agreed 
action and crystallizes on the exchange of illegal gratification. It does not 
matter whether the vote is cast in the agreed direction or if the vote is cast at 
all. The offence of bribery is complete at the point in time when the legislator 
accepts the bribe; and 
 
 
188.12. ⁠The interpretation which has been placed on the issue in question in 
the judgment of the majority in PV Narasimha Rao  (supra) results in a 
paradoxical outcome where a legislator is conferred with immunity when they 
accept a bribe and follow through by voting in the agreed direction. On the 
other hand, a legislator who agrees to accept a bribe, but eventually decides 
to vote independently will be prosecuted. Such an interpretation is contrary to 
the text and purpose of Articles 105 and 194. 
 
 
189. The reference is answered in the above terms.  Having answered the question 
of law raised by the Impugned Judgement of the High Court in this reference, 
the Criminal Appeal stands disposed of in the above terms.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 135
PART J  
Page 135 of 135 
 
190. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of.  
 
 
…….……………………………………CJI  
[Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud] 
 
 
 
 
…….………………………………………J  
[A.S. Bopanna] 
 
 
 
 
…….………………………………………J  
        [M.M. Sundresh] 
 
 
 
 
…….………………………………………J  
  [Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha] 
 
 
 
.……………………………………………J  
[J.B. Pardiwala] 
 
 
 
 
.……………………………………………J  
[Sanjay Kumar] 
 
 
 
 
.……………………………………………J  
[Manoj Misra] 
 
 
New Delhi; 
March 04, 2024 