# Vishal Tiwari v Union of India — 2024 INSC 3

Original URL: https://api.sci.gov.in/supremecourt/2023/5354/5354_2023_1_1501_49132_Judgement_03-Jan-2024.pdf
Decision/publication date: 2024-01-03
Retrieved: 2026-10-06 UTC
Original SHA-256: ca22d0de7f4a09069952781b888a7d953791a956450635cc2d2fe7215861f50b
Original pages: 1, 2, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 43, 44, 45, 46 (one-based).

This is a labelled extraction, not a substitute for the complete original.

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 1
2024 INSC 3
1 
 
Reportable  
 
 
 
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
ORIGINAL CIVIL/CRIMINAL JURISDICTION 
 
Writ Petition (C) No. 162 of 2023 
Vishal Tiwari         …Petitioner  
Versus 
Union of India & Ors.              …Respondents  
With  
Writ Petition (Crl) No. 39 of 2023 
With  
Writ Petition (C) No. 201 of 2023 
And with  
Writ Petition (Crl) No. 57 of 2023 
  

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 2
2 
 
JUDGMENT  
Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI 
Table of Contents 
A. Factual background and submissions ....................................................... 3 
B. The scope of judicial review over SEBI’s regulatory domain ................. 11 
C. There is no apparent regulatory failure attributable to SEBI .................. 17 
D. The plea to transfer the investigation from SEBI to another agency or to 
an SIT .................................................................................................................. 23 
i. The power to transfer an investigation is exercised in extraordinary 
situations ........................................................................................................ 23 
ii. SEBI has prime facie conducted a comprehensive investigation ...... 25 
iii. Reliance on the OCCRP report and the letter by DRI is misconceived
 28 
E. Allegations of conflict of interest against members of the Expert 
Committee .......................................................................................................... 30 
F. Other recommendations by the Expert Committee ................................. 32 
i. Volatility and short selling ...................................................................... 32 
ii. Investor Awareness ................................................................................. 36 
iii. Recommendations of the Expert Committee to strengthen regulatory 
framework and secure compliance to protect investors ............................ 39 
G. Conclusion .................................................................................................. 43 
 
 
 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 23
PART D  
23 
 
grounds have been pressed before the Court. Therefore, we find that the prayer 
seeking directions to SEBI to revoke its amendments to the FPI Regulations 
and LODR Regulations must fail.  
 
30. SEBI has completed twenty -two out of the twenty -four investigations into the 
Adani group. It submits that the remaining two are pending due to inputs being 
awaited from foreign regulators. We also record the assurance given by the 
Solicitor General on behalf of SEBI that the investigations would be concluded 
expeditiously. SEBI cannot keep the investigation open- ended and 
indeterminate in time. Hence, SEBI shall complete the pending investigations  
preferably within three months.  
 
D. The plea to transfer the investigation from SEBI to another agency or to 
an SIT 
i. The power to transfer an investigation is exercised in extraordinary 
situations 
31. The petitioners seek the transfer of the investigation from SEBI to the CBI or an 
SIT. The question that falls for decision is whether a case has been established 
by the petitioners for the court to issue such a direction.  
 
32. This Court does have the power under Article 32 and Article 142 of the 
Constitution to transfer an investigation from the authorized agency to the CBI 
or constitute an SIT. However, such powers must be exercised sparingly and in 
extraordinary circumstances. Unless the authority statutorily entrusted with the 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 24
PART D  
24 
 
power to investigate portrays a glaring, willful and deliberate inaction in carrying 
out the investigation the court will ordinarily not supplant the authority which has 
been vested with the power to investigate.  Such powers must not be exercised 
by the court in the absence of cogent justification indicative of a likely failure of 
justice in the absence of the exercise of the power to transfer . The petitioner 
must place on record strong evidence indicating that the investigating agency 
has portrayed inadeq uacy in the investigation or prima facie appears to be 
biased.  
 
33. Recently, in Himanshu Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh 12, this Court, 
speaking through one of us (JB Pardiwala, J) relying on a judgement of a three 
judge Bench of this Court in K.V. Rajendran v. Superintendent of Police 
CBCID South Zone, Chennai 13 reiterated the principle that the power to 
transfer an investigation to investigating agencies such as the CBI must be 
invoked only in rare and exceptional cases. Further, no person can insist that 
the offence be investigated by a specific agency since the plea can only be that 
the offence be investigated properly. The Court held as follows:  
 
“49. Elaborating on this principle, this Court further 
observed: 
 
“17. … the Court could exercise its constitutional 
powers for transferring an investigation from the State 
investigating agency to any other independent 
investigating agency like CBI only in rare and 
exceptional cases. Such as where high officials of State 
authorities are involved, or the accusation itself is 
against the top officials of the investigating agency 
thereby allowing them to influence the investigation, 
and further that it is so necessary to do justice and to 
 
12 2022 SCC OnLine SC 884 
13 (2013) 12 SCC 480 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 25
PART D  
25 
 
instil confidence in the investigation or where the 
investigation is prima facie found to be tainted/biased.” 
 
50. The Court reiterated that an investigation may be 
transferred to the CBI only in “rare and exceptional 
cases”. One factor that courts may consider is that such 
transfer is “imperative” to retain “public confidence in 
the impartial working of the State agencies.” This 
observation must be read with the observations made 
by the Constitution Bench in the case of Committee for 
Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal (supra), 
that mere allegations against the police do not 
constitute a sufficient basis to transfer the investigation. 
 
… 
 
52. It has been held by this Court in CBI v. Rajesh 
Gandhi, 1997 Cri LJ 63, that no one can insist that an 
offence be investigated by a particular agency. We fully 
agree with the view in the aforesaid decision. An 
aggrieved person can only claim that the offence he 
alleges be investigated properly, but he has no right to 
claim that it be investigated by any particular agency of 
his choice. 
 
53. The principle of law that emerges from the 
precedents of this Court is that the power to transfer an 
investigation must be used “sparingly” and only “in 
exceptional circumstances”. In assessing the plea 
urged by the petitioner that the investigation must be 
transferred to the CBI, we are guided by the 
parameters laid down by this Court for the exercise of 
that extraordinary power.” 
 
(emphasis supplied) 
 
34. Given the above position of law, the question that arises before the Court  is 
whether, in the facts of the present case, the transfer of investigation from SEBI 
to another agency is warranted.  
 
ii. SEBI has prime facie conducted a comprehensive investigation 
35. As noted above, out of the twenty-four investigations carried out  by SEBI , 
twenty-two are concluded. Twenty-two final investigation reports and one 
interim investigation report have been approved by the competent authority 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 26
PART D  
26 
 
under SEBI’s procedures. With respect to the interim investigation reports SEBI 
has submitted that it has sought information from external agencies/entities and 
upon receipt of such information will determine the future course of action.  
 
36. Further, in its status report, SEBI has provided the current status of each of the 
investigations conducted by it and the reasons for interim findings in two of the 
investigations. SEBI has also provided details such as the number of emails 
issued, summons for personal appearance, pages of documents examined, 
statements recorded on oath, etc. for each investigation. An overview of twenty-
four investigations conducted by SEBI is as follows:  
Sr. 
No. 
Issues No. of 
Investigations 
1 Minimum Public Shareholding- alleged violation of 
Rule 19A of Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Rules, 1957 
1 
2 Alleged m anipulation of stock prices in 
contravention of existing laws 
2 
3 Alleged r elated Party Transactions (RPT) -Failure 
to disclose transactions with Related Parties and 
other relevant information 
13 
4 Other Issues: 
(A) Possible violation of SEBI (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) Regulations, 2014 and 2019 
(B) Possible violation of SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011 
(C) Trading-Pre-post Hindenburg Report 
(D) Possible violation of SEBI (Prohibition of 
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
 
1 
 
 
1 
 
 
1 
5 
Total 24 
 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 27
PART D  
27 
 
SEBI’s status report and the details of the twenty -four investigations does not 
indicate inaction by SEBI. In fact, to the contrary, the course of conduct by SEBI 
inspires confidence that SEBI is conducting a comprehensive investigation.  
 
37. The petitioners have also raised questions about the delay by SEBI in 
submitting the status report before this Court . As noted earlier, by an order 
dated 2 March 2023, this Court directed SEBI to conclude its investigation within 
two months and file a status report before this Court . This Court  by its order 
dated 17 May 2023, granted SEBI an extension of time till 14 August 2023 to 
submit its status report about its investigation. Eventually, SEBI filed an 
interlocutory application intimating this Court about the status of the twenty-four 
investigations undertaken by SEBI on 14 August 2023. SEBI submitted a status 
report dated 25 August 2023 providing comprehensive details about all the 
investigations carried out by SEBI. Therefore, there is  a delay of only ten days 
in filing the report. Such a delay does not prima facie indicate deliberate inaction 
by SEBI, particularly, as the issue involved a complex investigation in 
coordination with various agencies, both domestic and foreign.  
 
38. Further, as noted in part C of this judgment, no apparent regulatory failure can 
be attributed to SEBI based on the material before this Court. Therefore, there 
is prima facie no deliberate inaction or inadequacy in the investigation by SEBI. 
 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 43
PART G 
43 
 
G. Conclusion 
67. In a nutshell, the conclusions reached in this judgement are summarized below:  
 
a. The power of this Court  to enter the regulatory domain of SEBI in framing 
delegated legislation is limited. The court must refrain from substituting its 
own wisdom over the regulatory policies  of SEBI. The scope of judicial 
review when examining a policy framed by a specialized regulator is to 
scrutinise whether it violates fundamental rights, any provision of t he 
Constitution, any statutory provision or is manifestly arbitrary; 
 
b. No valid grounds have been raised for this Court  to direct SEBI to revoke 
its amendments to the FPI Regulations and the LODR Regulations which 
were made in exercise of its delegated legislative power. The procedure 
followed in arriving at the current shape of the regulations does not suffer 
from irregularity or illegality.  The FPI Regulations and LODR Regulations 
have been tightened by the amendments in question; 
 
c. SEBI has completed twenty-two out of the twenty -four investigations into 
the allegations levelled against the Adani group. Noting the assurance given 
by the Solicitor General on behalf of SEBI we direct SEBI to complete the 
two pending investigations expeditiously preferably within three months; 
 
d. This Court has not interfered with the outcome of the investigations by SEBI. 
SEBI should take its investigations to their logical conclusion in accordance 
with law; 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 44
PART G 
44 
 
e. The facts of this case do not warrant a transfer of investigation from SEBI. 
In an appropriate case,  this Court does have the power to transfer an 
investigation being carried out by the authorized agency to an SIT  or CBI. 
Such a power is exercised in extraordinary circumstances when the 
competent authority portrays a glaring, willful and deliberate inaction in 
carrying out the investigation. The threshold for the transfer of investigation 
has not been demonstrated to exist; 
 
f. The reliance placed by the petitioner on the OCCPR report to suggest that 
SEBI was lackadaisical in conducting the investigation is rejected. A report 
by a third-party organization without any attempt to verify the authenticity of 
its allegations cannot be r egarded as conclusive proof. Further, the 
petitioner’s reliance on the letter by the DRI is misconceived as the issue 
has already been settled by concurrent findings of DRI’s Additional Director 
General, the CESTAT and this Court; 
 
g. The allegations of conflict of interest against members of the Expert 
Committee are unsubstantiated and are rejected; 
 
h. The Union Government and SEBI  shall constructively consider the 
suggestions of the Expert Committee in its report detailed in P art F of the 
judgment. These may be treated as a non-exhaustive list of 
recommendations and the Government of India and SEBI  will peruse the 
report of the Expert Committee and take any further actions  as are 

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 45
PART G 
45 
 
necessary to strengthen the regulatory framework, protect investors and 
ensure the orderly functioning of the securities market; and  
 
i. SEBI and the investigative agencies of the Union Government  shall probe 
into whether the loss suffered by Indian investors due to the conduct of 
Hindenburg Research and any other entities  in taking short positions 
involved any infraction of the law and if so, suitable action shall be taken. 
 
68. Before concluding, we must observe that public interest jurisprudence under 
Article 32 of the Constitution was expanded by this Court  to secure access to 
justice and provide ordinary citizens with the opportunity to highlight legitimate 
causes before this Court . It has served as a tool to secure justice and ensure 
accountability on many occasions, where ordinary citizens have approached 
the Court with well-researched petitions that highlight a clear cause of action. 
However, petitions that lack adequate research and rely on unverified and 
unrelated material tend to, in fact, be counterproductive. This word of caution 
must be kept in mind by lawyers and members of civil society alike. 
 
69. We are grateful to all the members and the Chairperson of the Expert 
Committee for their time, efforts, and dedication in preparing their erudite, 
comprehensive, and detailed report in a time -bound manner. Subject to the 
consent and availability of the members and C hairperson of the Expert 
Committee, SEBI and the Government of India may draw upon their  expertise 
and knowledge while taking necessary measures  pursuant to the 
recommendations of the Committee.  

ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 46
PART G 
46 
 
 
70. The Petitions shall accordingly stand disposed of in the above terms. 
 
71. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. 
 
 
 
….…..…....…........……………….…........CJI. 
                                                             [Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud] 
 
 
 
 
 
..…..…..…....…........……………….…........J. 
                     [J B Pardiwala]  
 
 
 
 
 
..…..…..…....…........……………….…........J. 
                     [Manoj Misra]  
 
 
New Delhi;  
January 03, 2024 