
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
F. No. 13011/2I2020-CBA2-Part (2)/P&S-1I 
Government of India 
Ministry of Coal 
***** 
ORDER 
Shastri Bhawan-l-,New Delhi 
Dated, the ~?; April, 2025 
Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal 
under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and 
Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. 
The undersigned is directed to refer to the order dated 28.05.2020 on the 
aforementioned subject (Annexure-I) wherein the methodology for auction of Coal 
Mines/Blocks for sale of coal was issued upon competent approval. The said 
methodology was amended vide order dated 24.11 .2021 and was further amended 
vide order dated 31.10.2022 (Annexure-II & III). 
2. The aforementioned methodology prescribes the floor percentage of 
revenue share as 4%. Secondly, the allocatee is required to deposit an Upfront 
Amount which is calculated at 0.2% of the value of estimated geological reserves 
subject to the prescribed ceiling. Both of these requisites are to be met uniformly 
by all allocatees irrespective of method of mining deployed by them, i.e., Open 
Cast, Under Ground or Mixed Mining. 
3. Ministry of Coal in its endeavours to promote environmental-friendly and 
sustainable mining practices, is encouraging coal miners by way of various 
incentives. This Ministry also acknowledges that when compared to Open Cast 
Mining, Under Ground Mining requires higher initial investment, has a longer period 
of gestation and is marked with higher cost of production. However, environmental 
benefits of Under Ground Mining certain.ly override such financial metrices, thereby 
making it the preferable method of mining. 
4. In order to give further impetus to the Under Ground Mining, the competent 
authority has approved the proposal to reduce the floor percentage of revenue 
share to 2% and to provide complete waiver of the Upfront Amount to the bidders 
participating in auction of coal and lignite mines/blocks (reserved for underground 
mining) for sale of coal/lignite. Therefore, the methodology dated 28.05.2020 is 
further amended as below: 
i. After the existing paragraph '2.1 .2 Bid Parameter' the following shall be 
inserted: 
"Provided, for the mines classified for Under Ground 
Mining in the Tender Document the floor percentage 
of revenue share shall be 2%." 

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
ii. In existing paragraph 2.1.5 Upfront Amount, after sub-para (D), the following 
sub-para shall be inserted: 
"(E) Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph, for 
the mines classified for Under Ground Mining in the 
Tender Document no Upfront Amount shall be 
payable." 
5. The successful allocatees of coal/lignite mines classified for underground 
mining on the aforementioned modified conditions of reduced floor percentage of 
revenue sharing and complete waiver of upfront amount shall not be allowed to 
convert the Under Ground Mine to Open Cast or Mixed Mine at any stage during 
the life of the mine. 
6. The aforesaid modification shall be applicable from successive tranches of 
auctions. 
7. All other terms and conditions mentioned in order dated 28.05.2020 (as 
modified from time to time) shall remain the same. 
This issues with the approval of competent authority. 
Enel: As above. 
To, 
(L. Khamminthang) 
Under Secretary to Govt. of India 
Tel: 011-23073936 
1. Additional Secretary & Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal 
2. Director (NA)/Director (T/NA), Director (P&S-I/P&S-II), Ministry of Coal 
Copy to:-
1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal 
2. PS to Hon'ble Minister of State for Coal 
3. PSO to Secretary (Coal) 
4. PPS to AS & NA 
5. STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal.. ...... for uploading on the website of Ministry. 

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
238
F.N 0.130 1112/2020-CBA2- Part(2) 
Government of India 
Ministry of Coal 
****** 
ORDER 
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi 
Dated the c9F ay, 2020 
Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal 
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and 
Regulation) Act, 1957. 
The undersigned is directed to refer to Rule 8 (2) and 8 (3) of the Coal Mines (Special 
Provisions) Rules, 2014 read with Section 8 (5) of the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 
2015 and Rule 3(1 ) (d) of the Coal Blocks Allocation Rules, 2017 read with Section 11 A of 
the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and to say that the 
Competent Authority has approved the methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks 
identified under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below: 
2.1 Methodology and other conditions for auction of coal mines for sale of coal:-
2.1.1 Applicability: It shall be applicable on auction of all fully explored coal blocks/mines 
(categorised in G-l exploration stage as per the modified Indian Standard Procedure for Coal 
Resource estimation, 2017) and partially explored coal blocks/mines (categorised in G-2 or 
G-3 exploration stage) for sale of coal under the CMSP Act and MMDR Act. The 
Methodology and other conditions shall also be applicable on lignite blocks, mutatis 
mutandis. 
2.1.2 Bid Parameter: The bid parameter will be revenue share for both fully explored coal 
mines (categorised in G-l exploration stage) and partially explored coal mines (categorised in 
G-2 or G-3 exploration stage). The auction will be an ascending forward auction where the 
bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue which would be payable to 
the State Government. The floor percentage of revenue share shall be 4%. The bid increments 
will be accepted in multiples of 0.5 % of revenue share till the percentage (%) of revenue 
share reaches 10% and thereafter, bid increments will be accepted in multiples of 0.25% of 
revenue share. The bidder that submits the highest percentage (%) of revenue share in the 
bidding shall be declared the preferred bidder. 
2.1.3 Revenue share payable: 
(A) The successful bidder shall be required to pay revenue share on monthly basis which 
shall be determined as product of: 
(i) percentage (%) of revenue share (final bid) quoted by the successful bidder; 
(ii) total quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is payable during the month ; and 
(iii) notional price or actual price, whichever is higher, where 
Page 1 of 5 

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
239
(a) 'notional price' refers to the price arrived at after adjusting the representative price with 
sub-index of NCI of relevant basket of coal grade(s) on the date on which royalty becomes 
payable , where ' representative price' is product of-
(1) weights (volume of coal in different components of notified price, auction price and 
imported price channels) of base year, and 
(2) prices of these components at the time of issuance of tender , and 
(b) 'actual price' refers to the sale invoice value of coal, net of statutory dues including taxes , 
levies, royalty , NMET , DMF, etc. 
(B) In addition to revenue share , other statutory dues including taxes, levies , royalty, NMET, 
DMF , etc. shall be payable under applicable laws. 
2.1.4 Incentives in revenue sharing model in certain events: 
The successful bidder shall be provided with incentives in the following events : 
(a) Early production: 
(i) In case of fully explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by the 
successful bidder would be allowed , till the scheduled date of production as per the 
production schedule given in the tender document, for the quantity of coal produced earlier 
than such scheduled date of production . 
(ii) In case of partially explored blocks, a rebate of 50% on revenue share quoted by 
successful bidder would be allowed, till the scheduled date of production, for the quantity of 
coal produced earlier than the scheduled date of production given in the approved mining 
plan. 
(iii) Statutory dues including taxes , levies , royalty , NMET, DMF , etc. shall be payable as per 
law. No exemption would be given to the successful bidder from obtaining any approval etc. 
under applicable laws required for stati of production. 
(b) Gasification or Liquefaction of coal: If the successful bidder consumes the coal 
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary , affiliate , associate for 
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process , 
a rebate of 20% on the percentage revenue share quoted by the successful bidder will be 
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction 
on an yearly basis , subject to the following conditions : 
(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall 
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction ; 
(ii) that Coal Controller ' s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or 
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction . 
(c) Empowered Committee of Secretaries may reVIew and determine the incentives on 
revenue share from time to time. 
2.1.5 Upfront Amount: 
(A) The Upfront Amount shall be calculated at 0.25% of the value of estimated geological 
reserves of the coal mine . Value of estimated geological reserves shall be equal to the product 
of the following: 
Page 2 of 5 

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
240
, , 
(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and 
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred III para 2.1.3 
(A)(iii)(a) above. 
However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above method 
or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-
Geological Reserves in mine (MT) Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount 
(Rs. cr) 
Upto 200 100 
Above 200 500 
(B) The ceilings are calculated as per prevalent market conditions and the same is liable to be 
revised in case there is substantial upward/downward change in market conditions by 
Empowered Committee of Secretaries. 
(C) The Successful Bidder shall have the option to get the Upfront Amount adjusted against 
the revenue share payable subject to the condition that such adjustment of upfront amount 
shall not exceed 50% of the revenue share payable in the year. 
(D) The Upfront Amount shall be payable by the successful bidder in 4 equal installments as 
provided in the tender document. 
.' 
2.1.6 Sale and/or Utilisation of Coal 
There shall be no restriction on the sale and/ or utilisation of coal from the coal mine. The 
successful bidder shall be free to sell coal in any manner as may be decided by the successful 
bidder including sale to affiliates and related parties, utilise coal for any purpose including 
but not limited to captive consumption, gasification, liquefaction and export of coal. 
2.1.7 Flexibility in Coal Production 
(A) The successful bidder shall produce coal not below 65% of the scheduled production as 
per approved mine plan in a year subject to the condition that the successful bidder shall not 
produce coal less than 75% of the scheduled production as per approved mine plan in any 
block of three years. The three-year block shall be counted from the first financial year of 
scheduled commencement of production in the coal mine. 
(B) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in 
a financial year: 
(i) In the event the annual coal production is less than 65% of the scheduled production in 
any financial year, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the revenue share (for both, 
coal produced and shOlifall) so that the total revenue share paid is equal to 65% of scheduled 
coal production for that financial year. 
(ii) In such cases, the annual revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (65% of 
scheduled coal production less the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid) 
shall be computed on the basis of notional price. 
(C) Revenue share payable to the Government in case of shortfall in coal production in 
a block of three financial years: 
(i) Further, in event the coal production in a block of three financial years is less than 75% of 
the scheduled production for that block, the successful bidder shall be required to pay the 
revenue share (for both, coal produced and shortfall) so that the total revenue share paid is 
equal to 75% of scheduled coal production for that block of three financial years. 
Page 3 of 5 

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
241
(ii) In such cases, the revenue share payable for the shortfall quantity (75% of scheduled coal 
production of three years less the quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is paid in 
three years) shall be computed on the basis of notional price. 
(D) However, statutory dues including taxes, levies, royalty, NMET, DMF, etc. shall be 
payable as per the applicable law. 
2.1.8 Exploitation of Coal Bed Methane 
In case there is presence of coal bed methane (CBM) in the coal mine, the successful 
bidder may also commercially exploit the CBM present in the mining lease area and shall 
approach the Directorate General of Hydrocarbon (DGH) for its technical approval followed 
by the grant of CBM mining lease by respective State Government. In addition to monthly 
revenue share payable for coal, the successful bidder shall also make payments of monthly 
revenue share for CBM based on same percentage revenue share quoted (final bid) by it 
during auction of coal mine. Other mechanisms with regard to arriving at the price of CBM 
shall be governed by the applicable Policy issued by M/o Petroleum and Natural Gas being 
the administrative Ministry. 
2.1.9 Relinquishment of the block 
A successful bidder of a partially explored coal block shall be permitted to relinquish 
the coal block on meeting the conditions given in the tender documents. 
2.1.10 Other terms and conditionsl modalities of auction including eligibility criteria shall be 
decided by the M/o Coal. 
2.1.11 Existing CCEA approved methodologies applicable on allotment of coal mines under 
the CMSP Act shall be applicable on allotment of blocks under the MMDR Act. 
2.1.12 No limit on number of coal mines or reserves or any other parameter regarding 
production of coal or any combination thereof that can be allocated to a company or its 
affiliate company, associate company, holding company or subsidiary is to be imposed in the 
first tranche of auction for sale of coal. Based on the learnings, suitable limits in subsequent 
tranches of auction may be placed as per decision Irecommendation of an Empowered 
Committee of Secretaries. 
2.1.13 The CCEA approved methodology dated 27.02.2018 for auction of coal mines for sale 
of coal shall stand modified to the extent covered in the proposal. 
2.2 A National Coal Index (NCI) along with its sub-indices of relevant basket of coal grades 
shall be developed in accordance with 2nd repOli of High Power Expert Committee (HPEC) 
with following modifications: 
1. NCI shall be computed on bi-monthly basis. 
II. Bifurcation of the coking coal into two parts: Steel Grade, into which the price of the 
imported component of coking coal would be included and second the Washery Grade 
(consisting of W -1 , 2, 3 and 4), in which there would be no impOli component. Rest 
of the Coking Coal, i.e. W-5 and W-6 may be treated as the corresponding Grade of 
Non-Coking Coal. 
III. Revenue Share Payable: As proposed in para 2.1.3 above. 
Page 4 of 5 

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
228824(12)/2020/CBA-II
242
2.3 With the approval of Competent Authority , an Empowered Committee of Secretaries has 
been constituted vide OM of even number dated 28.05.2020 to deliberate and decide! 
recommend on the miscellaneous terms and conditions for successive rounds of auction and 
also on the operationalisation aspects of coal mines as detailed in the OM dated 28.05.2020 
referred to in this para . 
2.4 Increasing the tenure of coking coal linkage 
The coking coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction may be granted 
for a tenure upto 30 years. 
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority . 
To 
(1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal 
(Rishan R tathiang) 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India 
Tel. 23384104 
(2) JS (BPP), Ministry of Coal: For appropriate necessary action in respect of auction of 
coal mines under the relevant provisions of the MMDR Act, 1957 and Rules made 
there under. 
(3) Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal 
Copy to: 
1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal 
2. PSO to Secretary (Coal) 
3. PPS to AS (Coal) 
4. PPS to JS (MN)! PPS to JS (RKS)!PS to JS (BPP) 
5. DS (NA)!DS (CBA-II) !DS(CBA-I) 
6. STD, NIC, Ministry ofCoal. ..... for uploading on the website of Ministry. 
Page 5 of 5 

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
 
 F.No.13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part (2)/P&S-II
Government of India
Ministry of Coal
******
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi
Dated the 24th  November, 2021
 
ORDER
Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the Coal
Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and
Regulation) Act, 1957.
 
          The undersigned is directed to refer to Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the
subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendation of Empowered Committee of
Secretaries,  the  Central  Government  has  approved  the  following  modification  in  the
methodology for auction of coal mines/blocks identified under the relevant Act for sale of
coal as mentioned in para 2 below: 
 
2.       The para 2.1.4 (b) of Order dated 28.05.2020 (Copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned
above shall stand modified as under:
 
         Gasification  or Liquefaction  of coal:  If the successful bidder  consumes  the  coal
produced either in its own plant(s) or plant of its holding, subsidiary, affiliate, associate for
coal gasification or liquefaction or sells the coal for coal gasification or liquefaction process, a
rebate  of 50%  on the  percentage  revenue  share quoted  by the  successful  bidder will  be
allowed on the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction
on an yearly basis, subject to the following conditions:
 
(i) At least 10% of scheduled coal production as per approved mining plan for that year shall
be consumed or sold for gasification or liquefaction;
(ii) that Coal Controller’s certification would be required for the quantity of coal consumed or
sold or both for gasification or liquefaction.
 
3.    The aforesaid modification shall be applicable for ongoing and successive tranches of
auction for sale of coal.
 
4.     All other terms of Order dated 28.05.2020 shall remain the same. 
 
             This issues with the approval of Competent Authority.
 
Encl: As above
 
(Byasadev Naik)
Deputy Director (P&S-II)
Tel. 23070378
To
 
  (1) The Nominated Authority, Ministry of Coal
File No.CBA2-13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
 
  (2) JS (P&S), Ministry of Coal
 
  (3) Director (CLD), Ministry of Coal
 
 
Copy to: 
 
1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal 
2. PSO to Secretary (Coal) 
3. PPS to AS (Coal) 
4. PPS to AS (MN) & NA 
5. PPS to JS (P&S) 
6. DS (NA)/DS (P&S-II/P&S-I) 
7. STD, NIC, Ministry of Coal......for uploading on the website of Ministry. 
 
File No.CBA2-13011/2/2020-CBA2-Part(2)


--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
F.No.1301112/2020-CBA2-Part(2)/P&S-II 
Government of India 
Ministry of Coal 
****** 
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi 
Dated the October, 2022 
3\t;,~ 
ORDER 
Subject: Methodology for Auction of Coal Mines/Blocks for sale of coal under the 
Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. 
The und ersigned is directed to refer to Orders dated 28.05.2020 and 24.1l.2 021 
(copy enclosed) on the subject mentioned above and to say that on the recommendations 
of the Empowered Committee of Secretaries, the Centra l Government has approved the 
following modification in the methodology for auction of coal mineslblocks identified 
under the relevant Act for sale of coal as mentioned in para 2 below: 
2. The para 2.1.5 (A) of Order dated 28 .05.2020 on the subject mentioned above shall 
stand modified as under:-
Upfront Amount: 
(A) The Up front Amount sha ll be calculated at 0.20% of the value of estimated 
geologica l reserves of the coal mine. Value of estimated geological reserves shall be 
equal to the product of the following: 
(i) estimated quantity of geological reserves in the coal mine, and 
(ii) the representative price of relevant grade(s) of coal referred in para 2.1.3 
(A)(iii)(a) of OM of even number dated 28.05.2020. 
However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above 
method or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-
Geological Reserves in mine (MT) Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount 
(Rs. cr) 
Upto 200 75 
Above 200 500 
3. All other terms & conditions will remain the same. 
This issues with the approval of Competent Authority . 
To, 
(Rishan R tathiang) 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India 
Tel. 23073936 
(1) Additional Secretary & Nominated Authority , Ministry of Coal 
(2) Director (NA) /Director (P&S-I1P&S-II) 

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
Copy to: 
1. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Coal 
2. PSO to Secretary (Coal) 
3. PPS to AS (Coal) 
4. PPS to AS (MN)& NA 
5. STD, NrC, Ministry of Coal.. .... for uploading on the website of Ministry. 