
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
6  THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY    [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 
MINISTRY OF POWER  
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the 6th June, 2022 
G.S.R. 418(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) read with clause (z) of  
sub-section (2) of section 176 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules, namely:-  
1. Short title and commencement.–(1)These rules may be called the Electricity (Promoting Renewable 
Energy Through Green Energy Open Access) Rules, 2022. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
2. Definitions. – (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise, requires: - 
(a) ―Act‖ means  the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003); 
(b) ―entity‖ means any consumer who has contracted demand orsanctioned l oad of 100 kW or 
more except for captive consumers: 
Provided that in case of captive consumers there shall not be any load limitation; 
(c) ―forum of regulators‖ means the forum as referred to in sub -section (2) of section 166 of the 
Act.  
(d) ―green energy‖ means the electrical energy from renewable sources of energyincluding 
hydro and storage (if the storage uses renewable energy) or any other technology asmay be 
notified by the Government of Indiafrom time to time andshall also include any mechanism 
that utilises green energy to replace fossil fuels including production of green hydrogen or 
green ammonia as perprovision of clause G of sub-rule(2)  of rule 4; 
(e) ―obligated entity‖ means the entities mandated under clause (e) of sub -section(1) of 
section86 of theAct  to fulfill Renewable Purchase Obligation, which includes distribution 
licensee, captive user, andopen access consumer. 
(2) The words and expressions used and not defined herein but defined in the Act shall have the 
meaningsrespectively assigned to them in the Act. 
3. Applicability.– This rules shall be applicable forgeneration, purchase and consumption of green 
energy as defined under clause (c) of rule 2,including the energy from Waste-to-Energy plant. 
4. Renewable Purchase Obligation .– (1) On and from the date of commencement of these rules,there 
shall be an uniform renewable purchase obligation, on all obligated entities  in area of a distribution 
licensee. 
(2) Any entity, whether obligated or not may elect to generate, purchase and consume renewable 
energy as per their requirements by one or more of the following methods:- 
(A) Own Generation from renewable energy sources .–There shall not be any capacity limit for 
installation of power plants from renewable energy sources, by entitiesfor their own consumption 
and such plants may be set up at any location in India and power shall be transmitted by 
usingopenaccess: 
Provided  that the generating plant may be set up by the entity itself or by a developer with which 
the entity enters into a power purchase agreement. 
(B) By pro curing Renewable Energy through Open Access from any Developer either directly or 
through a trading licensee or through power markets. 
Explanation: (1) Developer means the generating company who generate electrical energy from 
renewable sources of energy. 
(2) Trading Licenseemeans a person who has been granted a licence by appropriate commission,  
for purchase of electricity for resale thereof. 
(C) By requisition from distribution licensee .–(a) Any entity may elect to purchasegreen energy 
eitherupto a certain percentage of the consumption or its entire consumption and they may place a 
requisition for this with their distribution licensee, which shall procure such quantity of green 

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
[भाग  II—खण् ड 3(i)] भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण   7 
energy and supply it and the consumer shall have the flexibility to give separate r equisition for 
solar andnon-solar; 
(b) The consumer may purchase on a voluntary basis, more renewable energy, than he is 
obligated to do and for ease of implementation, this may be  in steps of Twenty five per cent 
and going upto Hundred per cent; 
(c) The tariff for the green energy shall be determined separatelyby the Appropriate Commission, 
which shall comprise of the average pooled power purchase cost of the renewable energy, 
cross-subsidy charges if any, and service chargescovering theprudent cost of the distri bution 
licensee for providing the green energy; 
(d) Any requisition for green energy from a distribution licensee shall be for a minimum period 
of one year; 
(e) The quantum of green energy shall be pre-specified for at least one year; 
(f) The green energy purchased fr om distribution licensee or from Renewable Energy sources 
other than distribution licensee in excess of Renewable Purchase Obligation of obligated 
entity shall be counted towards Renewable Purchase Obligation compliance of the 
distribution licensee; 
(g) The Ac counting of renewable energy supplied at distribution licensee level shall be on a 
monthly basis; 
(D) By consuming green energy from captive power plant. 
(E) By purchasing of renewable energy certificates in accordance with the applicable regulations. 
(F) Purchase of green hydrogen or green ammonia; ―the obligated entity can also meet their 
Renewable Purchase Obligation by purchasing green hydrogen or green ammonia and the 
quantum of such green hydrogen or green ammonia would be computed by considering the 
equivalence to the green hydrogenor  green ammonia produced from one MWh of electricity from 
the renewable sources or its multiples and norms in this regard shall be notified by the Central 
Commission. 
(G) Any other sources, as may be, determinedby the Central Government.  
5. Green Energy Open Access. – (1) To provide Green Energy Open Access to consumers of green 
energy, the appropriate Commission may, if necessary, amend the relevant regulations made by it and 
such regulations shall be consistent with these rules. 
(2) All applications for open access of green energy in this regard shall be allowed by the nodal agency 
within a period of fifteen days: 
Provided that only consumers who have contracted demand or sanctioned load of hundred kW and 
above shall be eligible to take po wer through Green Energy Open Access and there shall be no 
limit of supply of power for the captive consumers taking power under Green Energy Open Access: 
Provided further that reasonable conditions such as the minimum number of time blocks, which 
shall not be more than twelve time blocks, for which the consumer shall not change the quantum 
of power consumed through open access may be imposed so as to avoid high variation in demand 
to be met by the distribution licensee. 
6. Nodal Agency.– (1) A Central Nodal Agency shall be notified by the Central Government to set up 
and operate a single window green energy open access system for renewable energy. 
(2) The Central Nodal agency shall set up a centralised registry for all Green Energy Open Access 
consumers and all the applications related to green energy open access shall be submitted on the portal 
set up by the said the Central Nodal Agency and these applications shallget routed to the concerned 
nodal agency notified by the Appropriate Commission for grant of green energy open access.  
(3) The Appropriate Commission shall notify the appropriate Load Despatch Centre as the nodal 
agency for grant of green energy open access for short term, to be defined by the Appropriate 
Commission,andthe State or Central Transmission Utility, as the case may be, as the nodal agency for 
grant of Green Energy Open Access, for medium and long term. 

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
8  THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY    [PART II—SEC. 3(i)] 
(4) The nodal agencies shall make available all relevant information regarding green energy open 
access to the public on the portal of the Central Nodal Agency. 
7. Procedure for grant of Green Energy Open Access .– (1) The Central Nodal Agency shall prepare, 
within a period of sixty days of commencement of these rules, a common application format for the 
Green Energy Open Access in consultation  with the Forum of Regulators and applications for the 
Green Energy Open Access shall be made in this format. 
(2) All the applications for the Green Energy Open Access complete in all respects, shall be submitted 
on the portal set up by the Central Nodal Agency.   
(3) The concerned nodal agency shall, by an order in writing, approve the applications for the Green 
Energy Open Access within a period of fifteen days, failing which it shall be deemed to have been 
approved subject to the fulfillment of the techn ical requirements as specified by the appropriate 
Commission: 
Provided that the order of processing of such applications for Green Energy Open Access shall be 
first in first out. 
(4) The Short term and medium term open access shall be allowed, if there is sufficient spare capacity 
available in the transmission system without any augmentation whereas for long term open access, the 
transmission system may be augmented if required: 
Provided that priority shall be given to long term in the existing system if sp are capacity is 
available and further, open access for non -fossil fuel sources shall be given priority over the open 
access from the fossil fuel.   
Explanation: For the purposes of this rule, the expression ―Fossil Fuel‖includes the fuels such as coal, 
lignite, gas, liquid fuel or combination of these as its primary source of energy, which are used in 
Thermal Generating Station for generating electricity.  
(5) No application for open access shall be denied unless the applicant has been given an opportunity 
of being heard in the matter and all orders denying open access shall be speaking orders. 
(6)  Appeals against an order of the concerned nodal agency, shall lie beforethe Appropriate 
Commission, within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of or der under sub -rule (4) of  
rule 7. 
(7)   The Appropriate Commission shall dispose the appeal within a period of three months and the 
order issued by it, shall be binding on the parties. 
8. Banking.– (1) Banking shall be permitted at least on a monthly basis on  payment of charges to 
compensate additional costs, if any, to the distribution licensee by the Banking and the Appropriate 
Commission shall fix the applicable charges. 
(2) The permitted quantum of banked energy by the Green Energy Open Access consumers sha ll be at 
least thirty percent of the total monthly consumption of electricity from the distribution licensee by the 
consumers. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this rule, the expression―Banking‖ means the surplus greenenergy 
injected in the grid and credit ed with the distribution licensee energy by the Green Energy Open 
Access consumers and that shall be drawn along with charges to compensate additional costs if any: 
Provided that the credit for banked energy shall not be permitted to be carried forward to subsequent 
months and the credit of energy banked during the month shall be adjusted during the same month. 
9. Charges to be levied for Open Access .– (1) The charges to be levied on Green Energy Open Access 
consumers shall be as follows:- 
(a) Transmission charges; 
(b) Wheeling charges; 
(c) Cross subsidy Surcharge; 
(d) Standby charges wherever applicable; and 
(e) No other charges except the charges above, shall be levied. 

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
[भाग  II—खण् ड 3(i)] भारत का राजपत्र : असाधारण   9 
(2) The Cross subsidy surcharge shall be as per the provisions of tariff policy notified by the Central 
Government under the Act : 
Provided that the cross subsidy surcharge for Green Energy Open Access Consumer purchasing 
green energy, from a generating plant using renewable energy sources, shall not be increased, 
during twelve years from the date of operating of the generating plant using renewable energy 
sources, by more than fifty percent of the surcharge fixed for the year in which open access is 
granted; 
Provided further thatthe additional surcharge shall not be applicable for Green Energy Open 
Access Consumers,if fixed charges are being paid by such a consumer: 
Provided also that cross subsidy surcharge and additional surcharge shall not be  applicable in case 
power produced from a Waste-to-Energy plant is supplied to the Open Access Consumer. 
Provided also that Cross subsidy surcharge and additional surcharge shall not be applicable if 
green energy is utilized for production of green hydrogen and green ammonia. (3) The cross 
subsidy surcharge payable by a consumer shall be such as to meet the current level of cross subsidy 
within the area of supply of the distribution licensee. 
(4) The standby charges, wherever applicable, shall be specified by the State Commission and 
suchcharges shall not be applicable if the Green Energy Open Access Consumers have givennotic e, in 
advance at least twenty four hours before the time of delivery of power, for standby arrangement to the 
distribution licensee: 
Provided that the applicable standby charges shall not be more than Ten per cent of the energy 
charges applicable to consumer tariff category. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this rule, (i) the expression ―standby charges‖ means the charges 
applicable to open access consumers against the standby arrangement provided by the distribution 
licensee, in case the open access cons umer is unable to procure power from the generating sources 
with whom they have the agreements to procure power due to outages of generator, transmission assets 
and the like. 
(ii) It is hereby clarified that in such situations the open access consumer has to take power from an 
alternate sources like the distribution licensee and the charges for maintaining standby arrangements 
for such consumers should be reflective of the costs incurred by distribution licensee for providing 
these support services. 
10. Green c ertificate.–The distribution licensee shall give green certificate on yearly basis to the 
consumers for the green energy supplied by the licensee to consumer on his request beyond the 
renewable purchase obligation of the consumers. 
11. Rating.–The State Commis sion may introduce the concept of rating of the consumer of the 
distribution licensee, based on the percentof green energy purchased by such consumer. 
12. Model regulation on methodology. – (1) In order to have acommon methodology for calculation of 
all the open access charges, theforum of regulators shall prepare a model regulations on methodology 
for calculation of open access charges, as well as banking charges within a period of four months from 
the date of commencement of these rules. 
(2) The framing of methodology referred to in sub-rule (1), of the forum of regulators shall ensure that 
various permissible charges are not beonerous and shall meet the prudent cost of the distribution 
licensee in order to fulfil the objective of promoting the procurement of green energy by Green Energy 
Open Access Consumers.  
[F. No. 23/09/2021-R&R] 
GHANSHYAM PRASAD, Jt. Secy. 
 
 
Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064 
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054. 
MANOJ 
KUMAR 
VERMA
Digitally signed by 
MANOJ KUMAR VERMA 
Date: 2022.06.06 
21:32:23 +05'30'