
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
To,
F. No. PD- 1 3/66 I 2020-PPP (P art-2) I e-347 563
!Ir(dT.f, I-VGOVERN M ENT OF IN DIA
qrr, ffi+{ad,rq-{qr.f{Trsq
MINISTRY OF PORTS, SHIPPING AND WATERWAYS
(qkF wqaz qffqlq ft{r/PPP WING)
qftafiTfi/Parivahan Bhawan,
t, {v<rrrl'/1, Sansad Marg,
;r{ ffi/llew Dethi - 110001
ft{i6/Dated: 21"t December, 2O2L
The Chairperson, All Major Pofts and CMD KpL
MD, IPA
Subject: TARIFF GUIDELINES, 2021 FOR THE FUTURE ppp
CONCESSTONAIRES - Regarding
Sir,
The Parliament of India has enacted the Major port Authorities Bill, 2020 toreplace the Major Port rrusts Act, 1963. The Ministry of Law and Justice has published
the Major Port Authorities Acl,2021 in the Gazette of India vide Gazette no 3 dated 18
February 2021.
. As per subsection (zc) under section 2 read with subsection (1) of section 24 ofthe Major Pot Authorities Act,2ozl, the Board of each Major port shali be competent toenter into and perform any concession contract with public private partnership (ppp)
concessionaire for Public private paftnership project for discharge of functioni oi theMajor Pot Authority under the Act.
The proviso clause to section 27(1) of the Major port Authorities Act, 2021provides that in case of Public private padnership projects after the commencement ofthe Act, concessionaire shall fix the tariff based on maiket conditions and on such otherconditions as may be notified. Further, clause (f) of subsection (2) of section 71 of theibid Act, empowers the central Government to make rules providing for the norms forfixation and implementation of scales, fees, rates and conditions und-er subsection (1) ofSection 27.
In this backdrop, a committee was constituted by the Ministry of pods, shippingand waterways vide o.M.No.pD-1316612020-ppple-34r758, dated bB December'2020
for revision of Model concession Agreement (MCA) and other issues of public private
Partnership Projects under the chairmanship of Chairman, V.o. chidambaranar poft
Trust (VOCPT). The Committee has consulted all the Major ports.
Based on the report of the Committee and in exercise of the powers conferred tothe central Government under Section 53 and clause (f) of subsection 2 of section 71 of

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
^-,/.-
the Major Pod Authorities Acl, 2027, this Government hereby issues the following Tariff
Guidelines,2021.
The said Tariff Guidelines, 2021 are issued to the Major Port Authorities (MPAs)
for PPP projects approved by the Government but are still under bidding stage and all
future concession agreements to be entered by Major Ports, for framing of Project wise
Scale of Rates along with necessary conditionalities that will apply upon the services to
be provided by the PPP Concessionaires based on market conditions and on such other
conditions notified hereunder.
TARIFF GUIDELINES, 2021 FOR FRAMING OF SCALE OF RATES FOR THE
concrssroN nenegMeNrs eNrenro rnto sv rHr MAJOn pont lurHomw
WITH PPP CONCESSIONAIRE AFTER MAJOR PORT AUTHORITIES ACT, 2021
HAS INTO FORCE
1. PRELIMINARY
1.1. These guidelines are issued to the Major Port Authorities (the "MPAs") and PPP
Concessionaires, for framing of Scale of Rates along with conditionalities for each PPP
project of the respective PPP Concessionaire(s) who have been authorised as set forth in
thi Concession Agreement(s) by the Board of Major Port Authority to discharge the
authorised functions/ provide services at the Major Port Authority.
t.2. This Tariff Guidelines may be called as "Tariff Guidelines, 2o21" , f or framing of
Scale of Rates for PPP projects approved by the Government but are still under bidding
stage and all future concession agreements, to be entered by Major Ports as per MPA
nctl zozt. The Tariff Guidelines, 2021 may be duly updated or revised from time to time
by ihe Government in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 53 and clause (f)
of subsection 2 of Section 71 of the Major Port Authorities Act, 2021'
1.3. These Tariff Guidelines 2021 will be applicable prospectively to all the PPP
concession Agreements entered into by the Major Port Authority .. 
with PPP
Concessionaire under the MPA Act, 2021. These Tariff Guidelines 2021 shall remain in
force until further reviewed or amended or modified or revoked'
t.4. Unless the context otherwise requires, various terms used herein will have the
same definition as in the MPA Act, 2021 and the Indian Ports Act, 1908, as amended
from time to time.
1.5. if any difficulty arises in giving effect to this Tariff Guidelines, the central
Government may in consultation with PPP Concessionaires and Major Port Authorities
pass such orders, as may be necessary for removing the difficulty'
1.6 For purposes of these Tariff Guidelines, the term 'scale of Rates'shall mean the
specific tariff iates along with conditionalities that are to be determined, informed and
published by the ppp Loncessionaires as per market conditions in respect of their
respective PPP Projects awarded as per MPA Act, 2021 and as per provisions therein
including Section 27( 1).
2, DETERMINATION OF SCALE OF MTES

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
e
2.7. Each PPP Concessionaire is authorised by the Concessioning Authority to
discharge functions and provide services as set forth in their respective concession
Agreement(s) and also have the liberty to frame their own scale of Rates for any and all
services (including combination of services) they perform/ provide to
their users/customers. The scale of Rates set by the ppp concessionaire must be in
accordance with the provisions of their respective concession Agreement(s) as well as
PROVIDED that the services or combination of the services for which the scale of Rates
is framed by the PPP Concessionaire shall
(i) not be with retrospective effect
(ii) not be in derogation with the rules made by or directives of the Central
Government in this behalf;
(iii) not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Competition Act, 2002; and
(iv) not be inconsistent with the provisions of any other law for the time being
in force.
2.2. The PPP Concessionaire shall abide by the provisions of the Royalty and other
conditions as per the provisions of the concession agreemenG entered with the
Concessioning Authority.
2.3. The Scale oF Rates, along-with conditionalities, for services rendered shall be
formulated by the individual PPP Concessionaire, in accordance with these Tariff
Guidelines, 2021 as amended from time to time.
2.4. The PPP Concessionaire shall ensure that the Scale of Rates includes tariff for all
the services rendered/ to be rendered by them within the scope of services prescribed in
the concession Agreement to ensure transparency and complete disclosure of applicable
charges on port users. The Scale of Rates may be categorized under the following
broad categories -a. Vessel Related Charges (if chargeable by the PPP Concessionaire under
the Concession Agreement)
b. Cargo /Container Handling Charges
c. Storage Charges
d. Other or Miscellaneous Charges
2.5.1. The PPP Concessionaire shall host the Scale of Rates as published rates/ tariff
and applicable conditionalities on its website for transparency. The Scale of Rates/
amendment/ revision in Scale of Rates as published by the PPP Concessionaire on the
website including conditionalities shall be the ceiling level i.e. the maximum rates or
charges or tariff chargeable.
2.5.2. The PPP Concessionaire may annually review its Scale of Rates and the
conditionalities. The PPP Concessionaire can modify, amend, increase, decrease, delete
or add new tariff/ conditions and host the revised Scale of Rates along with
conditionalities on its website in accordance with the procedure set fodh in these Tariff
Guidelines, 2021. Without prejudice to the aforementioned, the ppp Concessionaire
can, if necessary, even during the year or during the annual review, change or stipulate
revisions to the Scale of Rates based upon market conditions for existing cargo/ services
provided by the PPP Concessionaire, rationalise existing tariff/ storage tariff/ existing

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
-4-
conditionalities and can fix tariff I charge/ conditionalities based upon market conditions
for new cargo lnew service as permissible within the scope of the Concession
Agreement(s).
2.5.3. The PPP Concessionaire shall also intimate in writing the Scale of Rates as
amended from time to time to the Concessioning Authority.
2.6. The Scale of Rates and any revised/ modlfied Scale of Rates and conditionalities
will come into effect only after expiry of 30 days prospectively from the date of first
publishing of the Scale of Rates, revision/ modification of the Scale of Rates on the
website of the PPP Concessionaire.
2.7. The Concessioning Authority for inviting bids for PPP Projects may arrive at a
reference tariff based on Reference Tariff Guidelines, 2013 as amended from time to
time or choose to prepare their own reference tariff. For these Tariff Guidelines 2021,
the reference to Reference Tariff Guidelines 2013 will be only for indicative purposes
and may be used by the Concessioning Authority for calculation of Reserve Royalty, if
deemed fit.
2.8 The Scale of Rates of each PPP Concessionaire shall be decided subject to :-
i. Para 6 in respect of'Vessel Related Charges';
ii. Para 5 in respect of'Cargo Related Charges';
iii. Para 5A in respect of 'Container Related Charges';
iv. Para 5.5 in respect of'Storage Charges; and
v. Para 4 in respect of 'Other aspects' and other provisions of these
Tariff Guidelines 2021 as amended from time to time.
3. Payment of Royalty by PPP Concessionaires
3.1. The PPP operator shall pay royalty at the rate indicated in the Concession
Agreement applicable during the concession period.
3.2. All the PPP Concessionaires shall maintain all documents and supporting evidence
relating to the details of cargo/ containers handled category wise, tariff charged and the
amount collected and submit to the Concessioning Authority within 15th day of the
following month duly certified by its Internal Audito(s). The Concessioning Authority
shall have the option to verify and audit the quantity of cargo/ TEUs handled, tariff
charged and amounts of rates received.
3.3. For payment of Royalty in cases where there are existing policies of the Central
Government such as the existing coastal cargo/ container policy, the Concessionaing
Authority must stipulate the rate of Royalty that is to be levied in the case of 'trans-
shipment of normal containers of different sizes'as well as'coastal cargo/container' as
per provisions set forth in these Tariff Guidelines 2021 policy as amended from time to
time.
3.4. Royaltv Rates for Transhipment containers i.e. Foreign/ Coastal
This has to be brought out explicitly by the concerned Concessioning Authority in the
bidding document as well as in the Concession Agreement -

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
r
i) Incase of foreign transshipment containers, Royalty is to be levied at
a. one time of the normal containers fot a 20'transhipment container,
b. incase of transhipment containers between 20, to 40,, royalty is to be
levied at 1.2 times the normal foreign container rate and
c. incase of transhipment containers beyond 40,, royalty is to be levied at 1.5
times the normal foreign container rate.
ii) In case of coastal transhipment containers of 20,, container between 20,to 40,
and above 40', the royalty payment by concessionaire shall be 40o/o of the royalty
payable for Foreign Transhipment container of the corresponding size.
Illustration: suppose the handling tariff of a normal 20'foreign container is'5,000/,
tariff for coastal container is'3,000/- as per the coastal concession policy and as per
clause 5.4.1 of these Tariff Guidelines, tariff for Transhipment container is 1.5 times the
rate of normal foreign/ coastal container. Now, suppose royalty per TEU is
Rs.1,000. Then, the Royalty payable by concessionaire for Transhipment container
(foreign/ coastal) as per this clause 3.4.(i) and (ii) above shall be as tabulated below:
Description Tariff - Handling Charge (in
Rs.)
Royalty payable on Transhipment container if per TEU
Royalty is at Rs.1000/- shalt be -
Normal
Container
Transhipment
contain€r
20'
Transhipment
Container
20'to 40'
Transhipment
Container
Above 40'
Transhipment
Container
Foreiqn 20' 5000 7s00 1000 1200 1500
Coastal 20' 3000 4500 400 480 600
3.5.
As regards coastal containers or coastal cargo eligible for coastal concession in tariff asper the prevailing Government poricy, the tarifl of the coastar cargoT containe, is
charged at 60% of the tariff applicable to normal foreign cargo/ contai-ner. AccordingryRoyalty payable by the PPP Concessionaire to the Concessioning Authority on coastalcar9o or containers levied concessional tariff as per policy guideliness of theGovernment shall be at 4oo/o of the Royalty payable towards nor-mal foreign cargo/container.
4. OTHERASPECTS
4.1. Status of vessel: The status of the vessel for tariff determination purposes willbe borne out by its certification by the customs or the Director General or siripping. ftrisshall be the deciding factor for its crassificafion as 'coastal'or .foreign-goiii; 16r tnepurpose of levying Vessel Related charges; and, the nature of cargo or-its 
"orig"in 
will notbe of any relevance for this purpose.
4.2.1.
ruRC)

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
--G -
(a) A foreign going vessel of Indian flag having a General Trading Licence can
ionvert to'coaltal-run; on the basis of a Customs Conversion Order. Such vessel that
convefts into 'coastal run'based on the Customs Conversion Order at her first pott of
call in Indian Port will not require any further custom conversion, so long as it moves on
the Indian Coast.
(b) A Foreign going vessel of foreign flag can convert to'coastal run'on the basis of a
iicence for Sieci1ed period or Voyage issued by the Director General of Shipping and a
Custom Conversion Order.
4.2.2. Criteria for lew of vessel Related charqes (vRc) at concessional
Coastal rate and foreion rate:
(a) In cases of such conversion as set forth in Para 4.2.1. above, coastal rates shall
Le chargeaule by the load port from the time the 'convefted vessel' starts loading
coastal goods.
(b) In cases of such conversion as set forth in Para 4.2.1. above, coastal rates shall
le chargeable till the vessel completes discharging. operations at the last call of Indian
port. Inimediately thereafter, foreign going rates shall be chargeable by the discharge
ports.
(c) For dedicated Indian coastal vessels having a coastal licence from the Director
benerat of Shipping, no other document will be required to be entitled to coastal rates'
4.2.3. Criteria for lew of Carqo Related Charoes (CRC) at Concessional
Coastal rate
(a)ForeigngoinglndianVesselhavingGeneralTradingLicenseissuedfor.worldwide
)n'a .ourtui oi"ruiion should be accoided applicable coastal rates with respect to
uunoring cnurdes (HC) i.e. ship to shore_ transfer and.transfer from/ to quay to/ from
storage!ard inttuOing wharfage in the following scenario:
(i) Converted to coastal run and carrying coastal cargo from any Indian Port
and destined for any other Indian Poft'
(ii) Not converted* to coastal run but carrying coastal cargo from any Indian
Port and destined for any other Indian Port'
* The central Board of Excise and customs circutar no'15/2002-cus' dated 25 February
2002allowscarriageofcoastalcargofromonelndianpolttoanotherportinlndia,in
Indian flag foreigi going vessels without any custom conversion'
(b)IncaseofaForeignflagvesselconvertedtocoastalrunonthebasisofaLicence
ioi specinea period or Voyage-issued by the Director General of shipping, and a custom
Conversion Order, the coa"stal cargof container loaded from any Indian Port and
J"rtin"J ro. any other Indian port -should be levied at the rate applicable for coastal
cargo/ container.

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
-7-
4.3 Poft Users (i.e. users or customers of the ppp Concessionaire) will not be
required to pay charges for delays attributable to the PPP Concessionaire. For example
power failure, malfunction/ non function of crane or equipment provided by the ppp
Concessionaire.
4.4 Interest Rate: Port users (i.e. users or customers of the ppp Concessionaire)
can be subjected to interest on delayed payments and likewise the ppp concessionaire
shall also pay interest on delayed refunds at the same rate. For this purpose the rate of
interest should be identical for amount receivable by the ppp concessionaire and
payable by the PPP concessionaire to be calculated on simple interest basis and not
exceeding 15% p.a.
4.5 The period for calculation of delay in payments by port users (i.e. users or
customers of the PPP Concessionaire) will be counted beyond 10 days after the date of
raising the bills by the concerned PPP Concessionaire.
4.6 The delay in refunds by the PPP Concessionaire will be counted beyond 20 days
from the date of completion of services or on production of all documents required from
the Port users (i.e. users or customers of the PPP concesslonaire), whichever is later.
4.7.1. All US dollar denominated tariff set forth in the scale of Rates will be recovered in
Indian Rupees after conversion of charges in US dollar terms into its equivalent Indian
Rupees at the current reference rate (as on the date of conversion) as notified by the
Reserve Bank of India or the market buying rate notified by State Bank of India.
4.7.2. Alternatively, PPP concessionaire may recover US dollar denominated tariff in US
dollars after seeking approval of the Government and in compliance with the provisions
of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the necessary guidelines of the
Reserve Bank of India.
4.8. The day of entry of the vessel into pod limits shall be reckoned as the day for
such conversion purposes in respect of Vessel Related Charges. In respect of charges on
containers or cargo, the day of entry of the vessel in the case of import containeis and
the day of arrival of containers into the port in the case of export containers shall be
reckoned as the day for such conversion.
4.9. A regular review of exchange rate shall be made once in 30 (thirty) days from
the date of arrival in the cases of vessels staying in the pot for a period longer than 30
(thifi) days. The basis of billing shall change prospectively with reference to the
appropriate exchange rate prevalling at the time of review.
4.10. The rates prescribed in the scale of Rates hosted on the website of the ppp
concessionaire shall remain the published rates for the particular ppp Concessionaire.
No tariff or rates can be charged in excess of the said Scale of Rates. It is however
clarified that the PPP concessionaire would be at liberty to offer rebates and discounts
on the published Scale of Rates to its users/customers,
5. CARGO RELATED CHARGES.
5'l cargo-related charges shall continue to be denominated in Indian Rupee terms.

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
- g-
5.2. 'Wharfage rates' if chosen to be levied as part of Cargo Related Charges by the
PPP Concessionaire shall be on per unit of either weight or volume of cargo handled.
5.3. Before classifying any cargo under "unspecified" category under the wharfage
Scale, the relevant customs classification should be referred by the PPP Concessionaire
to find out whether the cargo could be classified under any of the specific categories
mentioned in the wharfage Scale.
5.4 Concessional tariff will be prescribed for coastal cargoes/ containers, as per the
policy guidelines of the Government as amended from time to time.
5.4.1. Presently, as per the coastal concession Policy of the Government, the cargo/
container related charges for all coastal cargo/ containers, other than thermal coal and
pol including crude oil, iron ore and iron ore pellets should not exceed 600/0 of the
normal cargo/ container related charges. In case of cargo related charges, the
concession should be allowed on all the relevant cargo handling charges for ship-shore
transfer and transfer from/to quay to/from storage yard including wharfage'
5.4.2. For the purpose of this concession cargo/ container from a foreign port which
reaches an Indian Port'A'for subsequent transhipment to Indian Port'B'will also qualify
insofar as the charges relevant for its coastal voyage. In other words, cargo/containers
from/to Indian Ports carried by vessels permitted to undertake coastal voyage will
qualify for the concession.
5.4.3. To exemplify, in case a container from foreign port reaches Indian Port'A'for
subsequent transhipment to Indian Pott '8" 50% of foreign going rate and 50% of
coastal rate shatl be applicable for vessels permitted to undettake coastal voyage.
5.5. For Demurrage/ storage charges free days allowed shall be exclusive of customs
notified holidays and port/ terminal non-working days. The number of free days may,
be fixed by individual PPP Concesslonaire in its SOR. Once demurrage/ storage charge
starts accruing, no allowance will be made for the customs notified holidays and port/
terminal non-working daYs.
5A. CONTATNER RELATED CHARGES
5A.1. The handling charges as part of container Related charges for transhipment
containers shall be concessional. Such charges shall not exceed 1.5 times the handling
charges for the normal handling operation in loading or unloading cycle. In case of
tranihipment of coastal containers, the concession in handling charges shall be
calculated with reference to the applicable handling charges (which are subject to the
concessions specified in para 5.4.1. above) for coastal containers for the normal
handling operation in loading or unloading cycle.
Illustration
Let X be the handting charges for normal impoft or expott containers and Y be rate for
similar operations in respect of coastal containers (where Y is arrived at based on X after
giving the concessions specified in clause 5.4'1 above).

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
-9-
Handling charges as part of Container Related Charges for transhipment containers will
not exceed 1.5X in case of Exim containers and 1.5y in case of coastal containers.
5A.2.1. Free dwell-time (storage) allowed shall be exclusive of customs notified
holidays and Port/ terminal non-working days. The number of free days may, be fixed
by individual operators in its soR. once storage charge starts accruing, no allowance
will be made for custom notified holidays and terminal non-working days.
5A.2.2. Free dwell-time (storage) period for import containers shall commence
from the day after the day of landing of the container and For export containers the freeperiod shall commence from the time the container enters the terminal.
5A.2.3. The storage charges on abandoned FCL containers/ shipper owned
containers shall be levied upto the date of receipt of intimation of abandonment in
writing or 75 days from the day of landing of the container, whichever is earlier subject
to the following conditions:
(i) The consignee can issue a letter of abandonment at any time.
(iil If the consignee chooses not to issue such letter of abandonment, the container
Agent/ MLO can also issue abandonment letter subject to the condition that,
(a) the Line shall resume custody of container along with cargo and
either take back it or remove it from the port premises; and
(b) the line shall pay all port charges accrued on the cargo and
container before resuming custody of the container.
(iii) -The container Agent/ MLo shall observe the necessary formalities and bear thecost of transportation and destuffing. In case of their failure to take such action within
the stipulated period, the storage charge on container shall be continued to be levied till
such time all necessary actions are taken by the shipping lines for destuffing the cargo.
(iv) where the container is seized/ confiscated by the custom Authorities and thesame cannot be de-stuffed within the prescribed time limit of 75 days, the storage
charges will cease to apply from the day the custom order release of the cargo subject
to lines observing the necessary formalities and bearing the cost of transporiation and
de-stuffing. otherwise, seized/ confiscated containers ihould be r""ror"d by the line/
consignee from the port premises to the customs bonded area and in thai case the
storage charge shall cease to apply from the day of such removal.
6. VESSEL RELATED CHARGES.
6.1.1. Vessel-related charges for foreign-going vessels will be denominated in US dollars
and recovered in Indian rupees by the ppp Concessionaire.
6.1.2. Alternatively, PPP concessionaire may recover US dollar denominated tariff in US
dollars after seeking approval of the Government and in compliance with the provisions
of Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
-l0-
6.2. As per the prevailing coastal concession Policy of the Government, in case of
COaStal veSSelS, the vessel r"lat.d churget Should not exceed 60yo of the corresponding
charges for other vessels. Further, theie charges should be denominated and collected
in i,iaiun Rupees only. Restatement of coistal rates with reference to prevailing
"r.tlung" 
rate at the time of each general revision 
-of 
scale of Rates is not permitted as
pei tne existing coastal concessioi eollcy of the Government. This provision shall be
6o*in"a by th"e Coastal Concession Policy of the Government as amended from time to
time.
6.3. Status of a vessel as borne out by its certification is the relevant factor to decide
whether vessel is 'foreign-going' or 'coastal"
6.4,TheunitforlevyingVesselRelatedChargeswillbeGrossRegisteredTonnage
iCnl of the concerned. vessel. Unit for levy of berth hire charges as well mooring fee
and simitar charges that are linked to the duration of stay of a vessel shall be hourly'
7. Dispute Resolution/ Grievance Redressal
7.L. In the event any dispute or difference between the PPP Concessionaire and the
concessioning Authority regarding fixation/ revision of soR or tariff or conditionalities
determined f6llowing this iariff 6uidelines, the concerned PPP Concessionaire or the
ioni"iiioning nuthjrity shall make a reference to the Adjudicatory Board, constituted
under section 54 of the MPA Act, 2021 in accordance with the prescribed rules.
7.2. In the event any user has any grievance regarding procedure followed for
rixition/ revision of Scaje of Rates or conditionalities determined under these Tariff
Guidelines, 2021, the concerned user or party shall file its complaint/representation/
jrievance io the Adjudicatory Board, constituted under section 54 of the MPA Act, 2021
in accordance with the prescribed rules.
8. MANDATORY PROVISTONS IN CASE OF FORCE MAJEURE AND SPECIFIC
EVENTS
B.l.ThePPPConcesstonaireswillabidebyprovisionsoftheconcessionAgreementin
reipect of the Scale of Rates in cases of any unforeseen events including Force Majeure
events.Inadditiontotheabove,thePPPconcessionairescoveredbytheseTariff
Guidelines 2027 arealso mandated to comply with any orders, guidelines or notifications
irir"O UV the Concessioning Authority and the Central Government in respect of the
Scale of Rates with respecito Force'lt4ajeure events and/or other specific events that
concern or relate to matters of security of the nation or in public interest or such
matters that the concessioning Authority and/or the central Government may think fit in
accordance with the powers vested under the MPA Act 2021'
9. MANDATORY DISCLOSURES BY PPP CONCESSIONAIRES
9.1. All ppp Concessionaires shall furnish to respective Concessioning Authority
quarterly and annual reports on cargo traffic handled_and ship berth-day output' For the
container terminals, the PPP Conclssionaire shall furnish to Concessioning Authority
quarterly/ annual reports on container traffic handled, average moves by crane per hour
and average dwell time for containers.

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
-lt-
9.2. The quarterly reporLs shall be submitted by the ppp concessionaire within a
month following the end of each quarter. The Annual Repofts and Audited Accounts
shall be submitted by the PPP Concessionaire within 120 days following the end of each
of the financial year. Any other information which may be required by concessioning
Authority shall also be furnished to them from time to time.
9'3. The Major Ports Authorities/ concessioning Authorities are, therefore, directed to
adopt the aforesaid procedure prescribed in these Tariff Guidelines, 2021. The Major
Port Authorities are also directed to incorporate the said Tariff Guidelines as attachment
in the bidding document and Concession Agreement for ppp projects.
This issues with the approval of the Competent Authority.
Yours faithfully,
Under Secretary to the Government of India
lE-mail: nayak. gn@gov. inl
# 011-2331 1659
Copy to:
i. PS to Hon'ble Minister of Ports, Shipping & Waterways
ii. PS to Hon'ble Minister of State of Ports, Shipping & Waterways (Shri Shripad
Naik)
iii. PS to Hon'ble Minister of State of Ports, Shipping & Waterways (Shri Shantanu
Thakur)
iv. PPS to Secretary (PS&W)
v. PPS to AS, Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways
vi. PPS to AS&FA, Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways.
vii. PS to lolnt Secretary (PPP)/ Joint Secretary (Ports)/Economic Advisor, Ministry of
Ports, Shipping and Waterways.
viii. Director (PPP), Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways.
1v(G6pinath