
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
To 
No. P-45021/2/2017-PP (BE-II) 
Governmen t of India 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
Department for Promot ion of Industry and Interna l Trade 
(Public Procurement Section) 
Udyog Bhawan , New Delhi 
Dated : 15th September , 2020 
All Central Ministries/Depa rtments /CPSUs /AII concerned 
ORDER 
Subject : Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) , Order 2017- Revision ; 
regarding. 
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade , in partial modification 
[Paras 2, 3, 5, 10 & 13] of Order No.P-45021/2/2017-B .E.-II dated 15.6.2017 as 
amended by Order No.P-45021/2/2017-B .E.-II dated 28.05.2018 , Order No.P-
45021/2/2017-B .E.-II dated 29.05.2019 and Order No.P-45021/2/2017-B .E.-II dated 
04.06.2020 , hereby issues the revised 'Public Procurement (Preference to Make in 
India), Order 2017 " dated 16.09.2020 effective with immediate effect . 
Whereas it is the policy of the Gove rnment of India to encourage 'Make in India' and 
promote manufactur ing and produc tion of goods and services in India with a view to 
enhanc ing income and emp loyme nt, and 
Whereas procu remen t by the Government Is substantia l in amount and can 
contribute towards this policy objective, and 
Whereas local content can be increased through partnersh ips, cooperat ion with 
local companies , estab lishing product ion units in India or Joint Ventures (JV) with Indian 
suppliers, increas ing the part icipation of local employees in services and training them , 
Now therefore the following Order is issued : 
1. This Order is issued pursuant to Rule 153 (iii) of the General Financia l Rules 2017 . 
2. Definitions : For the purposes of this Order : 
'Local content ' means the amount of value added in India which shall , unless otherw ise 
prescr ibed by the Nodal Ministry, be the total value of the item procured (excluding net 
domestic indirect taxes ) minus the value of imported content in the item (includ ing all 
customs duties ) as a proport ion of the tota l value, in percent. 
'Class-I local supplier ' means a supplier or service provider, whose goods , services or 
works offered for procurement , meets the minimum local content as prescr ibed for 
'Class-I local supplier' under this Order . 
. .... Contd . p/2 

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
- 2 -
'Class-II local supplier ' means a supplier or service provider , whose goods, services or 
works offered for procurement , meets the minimum local content as prescribed for 
'Class-II local supplier ' but less than that prescribed for 'Class-I local supplier' under 
this Order . 
'Non - Local supplier ' means a supplier or service provider, whose goods, services or 
works offered for procurement , has local content less than that prescribed for 'Class-II 
local supplier' under this Order. 
'L 1' means the lowest tender or lowest bid or the lowest quotation received in a tender, 
bidding process or other procurement solicitation as adjudged in the evaluation 
process as per the tender or other procurement solicitation. 
'Margin of purchase preference' means the maximum extent to which the price quoted 
by a "Class-I local supplier" may be above the L 1 for the purpose of purchase 
preference . 
'Nodal Ministry' means the Ministry or Department identified pursuant to this order in 
respect of a particular item of goods or services or works. 
'Procuring entity ' means a Ministry or department or attached or subord inate office of, 
or autonomous body controlled by, the Government of India and includes Government 
companies as defined in the Compan ies Act. 
'Works ' means all works as per Rule 130 of GFR- 2017, and will also include 'turnkey 
works'. 
3. Eligibil ity of 'Class -I local supp lier'/ 'Class -II local supp lier'/ 'Non -local suppl iers' 
for different types of procurement 
(a) In procurement of all goods, services or works in respect of which the Nodal 
Ministry / Department has commun icated that there is sufficient local capacity and local 
competition , only 'Class-I local supplier ', as defined under the Order , shall be eligible to 
bid irrespective of purchase value. 
(b) Only 'Class-I local supplier' and 'Class-II local supplier', as defined under the 
Order, shall be eligible to bid in procurements undertaken by procuring entities, except 
when Global tender enquiry has been issued. In global tender enquiries , 'Non-local 
suppliers' shall also be eligible to bid along with 'Class-I local suppliers' and 'Class-II 
local suppliers '. In procurement of all goods, services or works, not covered by sub­
para 3(a) above, and with estimated value of purchases less than Rs. 200 Crore, in 
accordance with Rule 161(iv) of GFR, 2017, Global tender enquiry shall not be issued 
except with the approval of competent authority as designated by Department of 
Expenditure . 
(c) For the purpose of this Order, works includes Engineering, Procurement and 
Construction (EPC) contracts and services include System Integrator (SI) contracts . 
... .. Contd. p/3 

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
- 3 -
3A. Purchase Prefer ence 
(a) Subject to the provisions of this Order and to any specific instructions issued 
by the Nodal Ministry or in pursuance of this Order, purchase preference shall be given 
to 'Class-I local supplier ' in procurements undertaken by procuring entities in the 
manner specified here under. 
(b) In the procurements of goods or works, which are covered by para 
3(b) above and which are divisible in nature, the 'Class-I local supplier' shall get 
purchase preference over 'Class-II local supplier' as well as 'Non-local supplier', as per 
following procedure : 
i. Among all qualified bids, the lowest bid will be termed as L 1. If L 1 is 'Class-I 
local supplier ', the contract for full quantity will be awarded to L 1. 
ii. If L 1 bid is not a 'Class-I local supplier', 50% of the order quantity shall be 
awarded to L 1. Thereafter , the lowest bidder among the 'Class-I local 
supplier' will be invited to match the L 1 price for the remaining 50% quantity 
subject to the Class-I local supplier's quoted price falling within the margin of 
purchase preference , and contract for that quantity shall be awarded to such 
'Class-I local supplier' subject to matching the L 1 price. In case such lowest 
eligible 'Class-I local supplier' fails to match the L 1 price or accepts less than 
the offered quantity, the next higher 'Class-I local supplier' within the margin 
of purchase preference shall be invited to match the L 1 price for remaining 
quantity and so on, and contract shall be awarded accordingly. In case some 
quantity is still left uncovered on Class-I local suppliers, then such balance 
quantity may also be ordered on the L 1 bidder. 
(c) In the procurements of goods or works, which are covered by para 3(b) 
. above and which are not divisible in nature, and in procurement of services where the 
bid is evaluated on price alone, the 'Class-I local supplier ' shall get purchase 
preference over 'Class-II local supplier' as well as 'Non-local supplier ', as per following 
procedure : 
i. Among all qualified bids, the lowest bid will be termed as L 1. If L 1 is 'Class-I 
local supplier', the contract will be awarded to L 1. 
ii. If L 1 is not 'Class-I local supplier', the lowest bidder among the 'Class-I local 
supplier ', will be invited to match the L 1 price subject to Class-I local 
supplier's quoted price falling within the margin of purchase preference, and 
the contract shall be awarded to such 'Class-I local supplier' subject to 
matching the L 1 price. 
iii. In case such lowest eligible 'Class-I local supplier' fails to match the L 1 price, 
the 'Class-I local supplier' with the next higher bid within the margin of 
purchase preference shall be invited to match the L 1 price and so on and 
contract shall be awarded accordingly. In case none of the 'Class-I local 
supplier' within the margin of purchase preference matches the L 1 price, the 
contract may be awarded to the L 1 bidder. 
. .... Contd. p/4 

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
- 4 -
(d) "Class-II local supplier" will not get purchase preference in any procurement , 
undertaken by procuring entities. 
3B. Applicability in tenders where contract is to be awarded to multiple bidders -
In tenders where contract is awarded to multiple bidders subject to matching of L 1 rates or 
otherwise, the 'Class-I local suppl ier' shall get purchase preference over 'Class-II local 
supplier' as well as 'Non-local supplier', as per following procedure : 
a) In case there is sufficient local capacity and compet ition for the item to be 
procured, as notified by the nodal Ministry, only Class I local suppliers shall be eligible 
to bid. As such, the multiple suppliers, who would be awarded the contract , should be 
all and only 'Class I Local suppliers'. 
b) In other cases , 'Class II local suppliers' and 'Non local suppliers' may also 
participate in the bidding process along with 'Class I Local suppliers' as per provisions 
of this Order. 
c) If 'Class I Local suppliers' qualify for award of contract for at least 50% of the 
tendered quantity in any tender , the contract may be awarded to all the qualified 
bidders as per award criteria stipulated in the bid documents . However , in case 'Class 
I Local suppliers ' do not qualify for award of contract for at least 50% of the tendered 
quantity, purchase preference should be given to the 'Class I local supplier ' over 'Class 
II local suppliers'/ 'Non local suppliers' provided that their quoted rate falls within 20% 
margin of purchase preference of the highest quoted bidder considered for award of 
contract so as to ensure that the 'Class I Local suppliers' taken in totality are 
considered for award of contract for at least 50% of the tendered quantity . 
d) First purchase preference has to be given to the lowest quoting 'Class-I local 
supplier', whose quoted rates fall within 20% margin of purchase preference , subject to 
its meeting the prescribed criteria for award of contract as also the constraint of 
maximum quantity that can be sourced from any single supplier . If the lowest quoting 
'Class-I local supplier', does not qualify for purchase preference because of aforesaid 
constraints or does not accept the offered quantity, an opportunity may be given to next 
higher 'Class-I local supplier', falling within 20% margin of purchase preference , and so 
on. 
e) To avoid any ambiguity during bid evaluation process , the procuring entities 
may stipul ate its own tender specific criteria for award of contract amongst different 
bidders including the procedur e for purchase preference to 'Class-I local supplier' 
within the broad policy guidelines stipulated in sub-paras above. 
4. Exemption of small purchases : Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 3, 
procurements where the estimated value to be procured is less than Rs. 5 lakhs shall 
be exempt from this Order. However, it shall be ensured by procuring entities that 
procurement is not split for the purpose of avoiding the provisions of this Order. 
5. Minimum local conten t: The 'local content' requirement to categorize a supplier as 
'Class-I local supplier' is minimum 50%. For 'Class-II local supplier', the 'local content' 
requirement is minimum 20%. Nodal Ministry/ Department may prescribe only a higher 
..... Contd. p/5 

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
- 5-
percentage of minimum local content requirement to categorize a supplier as 'Class-I 
local supplier'/ 'Class-II local supplier'. For the items, for which Nodal Ministry/ 
Department has not prescribed higher minimum local content notification under the 
Order, it shall be 50% and 20% for 'Class-I local supplier'/ 'Class-II local supplier' 
respectively . 
6. Margin of Purchase Preference : The margin of purchase preference shall be 20%. 
7. Requirement for specification in advance : The minimum local content , the margin of 
purchase preference and the procedure for preference to Make in India shall be 
specified in the notice inviting tenders or other form of procurement solicitation and 
shall not be varied during a particular procurement transaction. 
8. Government E-marketplace : In respect of procurement through the Government E­
marketplace (GeM) shall, as far as possible, specifica lly mark the items which meet the 
minimum local content while registering the item for display, and shall, wherever 
feasible, make provision for automated comparison with purchase preference and 
without purchase preference and for obtaining consent of the local supplier in those 
cases where purchase preference is to be exercised. 
9. Verification of local content: 
a. The 'Class-I local supplier'/ 'Class-II local supplier' at the time of tender, bidding or 
solicitation shall be required to indicate percentage of local content and provide 
self-certification that the item offered meets the local content requirement for 
'Class-I local supplier'/ 'Class-II local supplier', as the case may be. They shall also 
give details of the location(s) at which the local value addition is made. 
b. In cases of procurement for a value in excess of Rs. 10 crores , the 'Class-I local 
supplier'/ 'Class-II local supplier' shall be required to provide a certificate from the 
statutory auditor or cost auditor of the company (in the case of companies) or from 
a practicing cost accountant or practicing chartered accountant (in respect of 
suppliers other than compan ies) giving the percentage of local content. 
c. Decisions on complaints relating to implementation of this Order shall be taken by 
the competent authority which is empowered to look into procurement-related 
complaints relating to the procuring entity. 
d. Nodal Ministries may constitute committees with internal and external experts for 
independent verification of self-declarations and auditor's/ accountan t's certificates 
on random basis and in the case of complaints . 
e. Nodal Ministries and procuring entities may prescribe fees for such complaints . 
f. False declarations will be in breach of the Code of Integrity under Rule 175(1 )(i)(h) 
of the General Financial Rules for which a bidder or its successors can be 
debarred for up to two years as per Rule 151 (iii) of the General Financial Rules 
along with such other actions as may be permissible under law. 
. .... Contd. p/6 

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
- 6-
g. A supplier who has been debarred by any procuring entity for violation of this Order 
shall not be eligible for preference under this Order for procurement by any other 
procuring entity for the duration of the debarment. The debarment for such other 
procuring entities shall take effect prospectively from the date on which it comes to 
the notice of other procurement entities, in the manner prescribed under paragraph 
9h below. 
h. The Department of Expenditure shall issue suitable instructions for the effective 
and smooth operation of this process, so that: 
i. The fact and duration of debarment for violation of this Order by any procuring 
entity are promptly brought to the notice of the Member-Convenor of the 
Standing Comm ittee and the Department of Expenditure through the 
concerned Ministry /Department or in some other manner; 
ii. on a periodica l basis such cases are consolidated and a centralized list or 
decentralized lists of such suppliers with the period of debarment is maintained 
and displayed on webs ite(s); 
iii. in respect of procuring entities other than the one which has carried out the 
debarment , the debarment takes effect prospectively from the date of 
uploading on the webs ite(s) in the such a manner that ongoing procurements 
are not disrupted . 
10. Specifications in Tenders and other procurement solicitations : 
a. Every procuring entity shall ensure that the eligibility conditions in respect of 
previous experience fixed in any tender or solicitation do not require proof of supply 
in other countr ies or proof of exports. 
b. Procuring entities shall endeavour to see that eligibility conditions, including on 
matters like turnove r, production capability and financial strength do not result in 
unreasonable exclusion of 'Class-I local supplier'/ 'Class-II local supplier' who 
would otherwise be eligible, beyond what is essential for ensuring quality or 
creditworthiness of the supplier. 
c. Procuring entities shall, within 2 months of the issue of this Order review all existing 
eligibility norms and conditions with reference to sub-paragraphs 'a' and 'b' above. 
d. Reciprocity Clause 
i. When a Nodal Ministry/Department identifies that Indian suppliers of an item 
are not allowed to participate and/ or compete in procurement by any foreign 
government , due to restrictive tender conditions which have direct or indirect 
effect of barring Indian companies such as registration in the procuring 
country , execut ion of projects of specific value in the procuring country etc., it 
shall provide such details to all its procuring entities including CMDs/CEOs of 
PSEs/PSUs, State Governments and other procurement agencies under their 
administrat ive control and GeM for appropriate reciprocal action . 
. . . .. Contd. p/7 

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
- 7 -
ii. Entities of countries which have been identified by the nodal 
Ministry/Department as not allowing Indian companies to participate in their 
Government procurement for any item related to that nodal Ministry shall not 
be allowed to participate in Government procurement in India for all items 
related to that nodal Ministry/ Department , except for the list of items 
published by the Ministry/ Department permitting their participation . 
iii. The stipulat ion in (ii) above shall be part of all tenders invited by the Central 
Government procuring entities stated in (i) above. All purchases on GeM shall 
also necessarily have the above provisions for items identified by nodal 
Ministry/ Departmen t. 
iv. State Governments should be encouraged to incorporate similar provisions in 
their respective tenders . 
v. The term 'entity' of a country shall have the same meaning as under the FDI 
Policy of DPI IT as amended from time to time. 
e. Specify ing foreign certifications/ unreasonable technical specifications/ brands/ 
models in the bid document is restrictive and discriminatory practice against local 
suppliers . If foreign certification is required to be stipulated because of non­
availability of Indian Standards and/or for any other reason , the same shall be done 
only after written approva l of Secretary of the Department concerned or any other 
Authority having been designated such power by the Secretary of the Department 
concerned . 
f. "All administrative Ministries/Departments whose procurement exceeds Rs. 1000 
Crore per annum shall notify/ update their procurement projections every year, 
including those of the PSEs/PSUs , for the next 5 years on their respective 
website ." 
1 0A. Action for non-compliance of the Provis ions of the Order : In case restrictive or 
discriminatory condit ions against domest ic suppliers are included in bid documents, an 
inquiry shall be conducted by the Administrative Department undertaking the 
procurement (including procurement by any entity under its administrat ive control) to fix 
responsibility for the same. Thereafter , appropriate action, admin istrative or otherwise, 
shall be taken against erring officials of procurement entities under relevant provisions. 
Intimation on all such actions shall be sent to the Standing Committee . 
11. Assessment of supply base by Nodal Ministri es: The Nodal Ministry shall keep in 
view the domestic manufacturing / supply base and assess the available capacity and 
the extent of local competition while identifying items and prescribing the higher 
minimum local content or the manner of its calculation , with a view to avoiding cost 
increase from the operation of this Order. 
12. Increase in minimum loca l cont ent: The Nodal Ministry may annually review the local 
content requirements with a view to increasing them, subject to availabil ity of sufficient 
local competit ion with adequate quality. 
. .... Contd. p/8 

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
- 8 -
13. Manufacture under license/ technology collaboration agreements with phased 
indigenization : While notifying the minimum local content , Nodal Ministries may make 
special provisions for exempt ing suppliers from meeting the stipulated local content if 
the product is being manufactured in India under a license from a foreign manufacturer 
who holds intellectual property rights and where there is a technology collaborat ion 
agreement / transfer of technology agreement for indigenous manufacture of a product 
developed abroad with clear phasing of increase in local content. 
13A. In procurement of all goods, services or works in respect of which there is substantial 
quantity of public procurement and for which the nodal ministry has not notified that 
there is sufficient local capacity and local competition, the concerned nodal ministry 
shall notify an upper thresho ld value of procurement beyond which foreign companies 
shall enter into a joint venture with an Indian company to participate in the tender . 
Procuring entities, while procuring such items beyond the notified threshold value, shall 
prescribe in their respective tenders that foreign companies may enter into a joint 
venture with an Indian company to participate in the tender . The procuring 
Ministries/Departments shall also make special provisions for exempt ing such joint 
ventures from meeting the stipulated minimum local content requirement , which shall 
be increased in a phased manner. 
14. Powers to grant exempt ion and to reduce minimum local content: The 
administrative Department undertaking the procurement (including procurement by any 
entity under its administrative control), with the approval of their Minister-in-charge, 
may by written order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, 
a. reduce the minimum local content below the prescribed level; or 
b. reduce the margin of purchase preference below 20%; or 
c. exempt any particular item or supplying entities from the operation of this 
Order or any part of the Order. 
A copy of every such order shall be provided to the Standing Committee and 
concerned Nodal Ministry / Departmen t. The Nodal Ministry / Department concerned 
will continue to have the power to vary its notification on Minimum Local Content. 
15. Directions to Government companies : In respect of Government companies and 
other procuring entities not governed by the General Financial Rules, the 
administrative Ministry or Department shall issue policy directions requiring compliance 
with this Order . 
16. Standing Committee : A standing comm ittee is hereby constituted with the following 
membership : 
Secretary , Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade- Chairman 
Secretary , Commerce - Member 
Secretary , Ministry of Electronics and Information Techno logy-Member 
Joint Secretary (Public Procurement) , Department of Expenditure- Member 
Joint Secretary (DPIIT)- Member-Convenor 
..... Contd. p/9 

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
- 9 -
The Secretary of the Department concerned with a particular item shall be a member in 
respect of issues relating to such item. The Chairman of the Committee may co-opt 
technical experts as relevant to any issue or class of issues under its consideration . 
17. Functions of the Stand ing Committee : The Standing Committee shall meet as often 
as necessary , but not less than once in six months. The Comm ittee 
a. shall oversee the implementation of this order and issues arising therefrom , and 
make recommendat ions to Nodal Ministries and procuring entities. 
b. shall annually assess and periodically monitor compliance with this Order 
c. shall identify Nodal Ministries and the allocation of items among them for issue of 
notifications on minimum local content 
d. may require furnishing of details or returns regarding compliance with this Order 
and related matters 
e. may, during the annual review or otherwise, assess issues , if any, where it is felt 
that the manner of implementat ion of the order results in any restrictive practices, 
cartelizat ion or increase in public expenditure and suggest remedial measures 
f. may examine cases covered by paragraph 13 above relating to manufacture under 
license/ techno logy transfer agreements with a view to satisfying itself that 
adequate mechanisms exist for enforcement of such agreements and for attaining 
the underlying objective of progressive indigenization 
g. may consider any other issue relating to this Order which may arise. 
18. Removal of difficulties: Ministries /Departments and the Boards of Directors of 
Government companies may issue such clarifications and instructions as may be 
necessary for the removal of any difficulties arising in the implementation of this Order. 
19. Ministries having existing policies: Where any Ministry or Department has its own 
policy for preference to local content approved by the Cabinet after 1st January 2015, 
such policies will preva il over the provisions of this Order. All other existing orders on 
preference to local content shall be reviewed by the Nodal Ministries and revised as 
needed to conform to this Order , within two months of the issue of this Order. 
20. Trans itional pro visi on : This Order shall not apply to any tender or procurement for 
which notice inviting tender or other form of procurement solicitation has been issued 
before the issue of this Order. 
Director 
Tel: 23063211 
rajesh.gupta66@gov .in 