
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
 
1 CARE Ratings Ltd. 
 
Press Release  
Tuticorin International Container Terminal Private Limited 
September 05, 2024 
Facilities/Instruments Amount (₹ crore) Rating1 Rating Action 
Long Term Bank Facilities 482.41 CARE A (RWD) Placed on Rating Watch with Developing Implications 
Short Term Bank Facilities 35.00 CARE A1 (RWD) Placed on Rating Watch with Developing Implications 
Details of facilities in Annexure-1. 
 
Rationale and key rating drivers 
CARE Ratings Limited (CARE Ratings) placed rating s of  Tuticorin International Container Terminal Private Limited (TICTPL) on 
“Credit watch with developing implications” considering a filing of composite scheme of demerger (“Scheme”) with National 
Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai (“NCLT”) by its parent entity J M Baxi Ports and Logistics Private Limited (JMBPL; rated CARE 
A+ (RWD) / CARE A1 (RWD)) dated August 22, 2024. The transaction is subject to completion of certain corporate and regulatory 
approvals applicable for respective assets. The scheme has been filed in furtherance to certain transaction documents that JMBPL 
has executed with Hapag Lloyd Terminal Holding B.V. (“HLTH”) (part of Hapag Lloyd Group (HLTH group)) for consummating a 
series of steps pursuant to which, HLTH becomes a shareholder of JMBPL. 
 
As per the scheme, JMBPL proposes to  demerge its container business es (comprising container terminals, container train 
operations, Inland container depot [ICD], Container Freight Station [CFS] and related services)  into a new entity i.e. J M Baxi 
Container Holdings Private Limited (JM Baxi Container, Resulting Company 1) and its corporate services  division into another 
entity i.e. J M Baxi Port Services Private Limited (JM Baxi Port Services , Resulting Company 2) while retaining its other non -
container businesses (comprising bulk terminal, cold chain , cruise terminal and services) into JMBPL itself. HLTH had acquired 
40% shareholding in JMBPL during FY24. Pursuant to the Scheme and the transaction documents executed amongst JMBPL and 
HLTH, it is intended that (a) the Kotak Family (Promoters) and HLTH will hold 51 percent and 49 percent shareholding in JMBPL, 
(b) Promoters and HLTH will hold 50 percent shareholding, each in JM Baxi Port Services, and (c) Promoters and HLTH will hold 
49 percent and 51 percent shareholding in JM Baxi Container. 
 
The scheme also proposes the continued extension of support structures by JMBPL along with support to be extended by in JM 
Baxi Container towards the existing lending arrangements of the group entities for a duration of three years from its date of 
effectiveness.  The exact implications of the above scheme on the risk profile and financial position of JMBPL and the demerged 
entities remains unclear. CARE Ratings shall be monitoring the developments in this regard and take a view once more  clarity 
emerges. 
 
The ratings of bank facilities of TICTPL considers strong promoter group with extensive experience and track record of its parent 
JMBPL (rated ‘CARE A+ (RWD) / CARE A1 (RWD) ’) in maritime sector and the resultant synergies from business linkages with 
shared infrastructure, common treasury function, management and financial support. JMBPL has also extended a sponsor support 
undertakings to support the project during construction, meet any shortfall in creation & maintenance of debt service reserve 
account (DSRA) and termination payment. 
 
The ratings also derive strength from long-term concession agreement (CA) with Board of Authority for V.O. Chidambaranar Port 
(VOC) for 30 years (including the construction period of 21 months) , long tenor of debt and tail period which support the debt 
coverage indicators . Furthermore, as per the sanctioned terms, there  is cash trap and restricted payment covenants with 
requirement of minimum debt-service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.50x. TICTPL will also derive benefit from strategic location of 
the port, presence of tariff autonomy as per the Major Port Authorities Act 2021 and favourable industry outlook. 
 
However, t he rating strengths are tempered by the inherent project execution risk, revenue volatility risk with presence of 
relatively higher minimum guaranteed throughput (MGT) clauses with VOC, high susceptibility to economic cycles and competition 
from the existing container terminals at VOC and existing/upcoming container terminals at nearby ports on the southern coast of 
India. However, the risk is partly offset by relatively simple nature of the project with strong execution track record of the promoter 
group and synergies expected from the JM Baxi group. 
 
1Complete definition of the ratings assigned are available at www.careedge.in and other CARE Ratings Ltd.’s publications  
 

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
 
2 CARE Ratings Ltd. 
 
Press Release  
Rating sensitivities: Factors likely to lead to rating actions 
Positive factors 
• Completion of project prior to the envisaged timelines and capacity utilization of the terminal ramping-up to 85%. 
Negative factors  
• Significant cost and/or time overrun in the project  
• Non-achievement of the envisaged scale of operations and profitability due to slower ramp -up of the container volumes 
thereby impacting DSCR 
• Any significant deterioration in the credit profile of the parent company (at group level) i.e. JMBPL 
Analytical approach: Standalone while factoring in the financial and operational linkages with the parent company i.e. JMBPL 
Outlook: Not Applicable 
Detailed description of the key rating drivers: 
Key strengths 
Strong promoter group with business synergies:  
TICTPL is a wholly owned subsidiary of JMBPL ( rated CARE A+ (RWD) / CARE A1 (RWD)) the flagship entity of J M Baxi group , 
which has an established presence in the Indian maritime sector with more than 100 years of experience and a diversified business 
profile with interests in shipping agency services, supply chain storage & offshore services, project logistics, freight forw arding, 
port infrastructure, container & cargo terminal business and digital technologies.  The group has demonstrated strong execution 
capabilities of port infrastructure assets and established track record of operations in various fields of maritime industry. By virtue 
of parent-subsidiary relationship, JMBPL provides management and operational support  to TICTPL. JMBPL has also extended 
sponsor support undertakings to support the project during construction, meet any shortfall in creation & maintenance of debt 
service reserve account (DSRA) and termination payment. 
 
The promoters, Mr Krishna Kotak and Mr Dhruv Kotak, have over three decades  of vast experience  in the industry and have 
spearheaded the group’s diversification and expansion from shipping agency service in early 1900s to one of India’s largest 
maritime conglomerates. 
 
In April 2023, HLTH acquired a 40% stake in JMBPL. HL TH is one of the leading global container shipping companies and this 
strategic acquisition is expected to result in operational synergies for JMBPL’s existing terminals and newly awarded termina ls. 
The comfortable financial and credit profile of HL TH also strengthened financial flexibility for the group. For CY23, revenue and 
profit after taxes (PAT) of HL TH was €17,929 million and €2,951 million respectively with net worth of €18,767 million as on 
December 31, 2023. 
Favourable location and established hinterland:  
TICTPL is setting-up a container terminal at VOC (major port) which is an artificial, all-weather port on the south-eastern coast 
of India in Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu. VOC is well sheltered from storms and cyclonic winds making it a safe port with no tidal 
restrictions even during monsoon. Currently, VOC has maximum draft of 14.20 metres which facilitates handling of Neo-Panamax-
sized vessels up to 1.80 lakh DWT, however, it also limits its ability to handle large-sized vessels. 
 
VOC is strategically located at the East-West International Sea route in the Gulf of Mannar with Sri Lanka on the south-east side 
and caters to south -eastern hinterland of India. VOC majorly caters to hinterland of Tamil Nadu which stretches in the west to 
Tirunelveli and beyond, Madurai in the northern region and Chennai in the eastern region which are connected to VOC by national 
highways, rail network, and airways (Tuticorin Airport is about 30 Km). 
Long-term concession and loan tenor leading to comfortable debt coverage metrics:  
TICTPL entered into CA with Board of Authority for VOC on September 03, 2022 for a period of 30 years  starting from date of 
award (DOA) i.e. from April 06, 2023 to April 06, 2053  to undertake the conversion of berth no. 9 at VOC to container terminal 
and operate & maintain the terminal on design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) basis . As per the CA, TICTPL has 
payments in terms of royalty on cargo handled, annual license fee and upfront fee payment to VOC (already paid prior to signing 
of the concession agreement). There is tariff autonomy as per the Major Port Authorities Act 2021  and accordingly TICTPL has 
the rights to fix the tariff based on market conditions. 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
 
3 CARE Ratings Ltd. 
 
Press Release  
The long-term concession has been complemented by the long-tenor loan of 20 years [including moratorium period of 1.25 years 
from commercial operation date (COD)] which is repayable in quarterly structured instalments providing support to the cashflows 
during the initial years of operation and stabilisation phase  leading to comfortable debt coverage metrics . Furthermore, as per 
the sanctioned terms, there is cash trap and restricted payment covenants with requirement of minimum DSCR of 1.50 x. The 
project has long tail period of 10 years which provides financial flexibility. 
Favourable industry outlook:  
Overall cargo throughput at Indian ports is at its all-time peak at 1539 MMT for financial year ended March 31, 2024, representing 
~7% growth over FY23. With the revival in economic activity, increasing demand and consumption of major commodities and 
declining shipping freights, the traffic re-gained from FY22 and reported healthy CAGR of 7% for FY21-FY24. Container volumes 
grew at healthy CAGR of 6% in India from FY20-FY22 indicating strong economic indicator despite COVID-19 related challenges. 
Container volumes grew at flat 3% in FY23 and witness healthy growth of 10% in FY24 due to strong recovery in EXIM trade 
despite Red Sea crisis since November 2023. Rising disruption in the Red Sea region have necessitated shipping liners to consider 
the alternative, longer route past the Cape of Good Hope. This has elongated transit time by 15-20 days and increased the freight 
cost. However, capacity liners’ willingness to increase capacity by earlier fleet renewal orders which will be arriving in FY25 and 
cascading capacity from other areas will reduce transit time to a minimum. CARE Ratings expects container volume to grow at 
rate of 8% in FY25 despite risk of prolonged Red Sea turmoil. Going forward, growth in exports volume and stability on geopolitical 
conditions shall be key monitorable. 
Liquidity: Adequate 
The liquidity position of TICTPL is adequate as the company does not have any debt obligation over the near term owing to the  
construction & moratorium period and the long tenor for debt repayment in structured quarterly payments. As per the scheduled 
project completion date (SPCD), the debt repayment would commence from Q1FY27 and cash accruals projected are expected 
to adequately meet the debt servicing obligation. Furthermore, TICTPL is required to create and maintain six months’ DSRA. 
Additionally, the liquidity position of TICTPL also derives comfort from strong parentage of JMBPL. 
Key weaknesses 
Inherent project execution risk:  
TICTPL is exposed to the inherent project execution risk involved in conversion of berth no. 9 at VOC to container terminal  with 
handling capacity of 6 lakh TEUs on DBFOT basis. The project will be funded in the debt-to-equity ratio of 70:30. The project risk 
is mitigated to an extent as the civil cost constitutes only 18% of the project cost while installation of the machinery/equipment 
constitutes 67% of the project cost. TICTPL has signed a contract with well-known company for supply & installation of three Rail 
Mounted Quay Cranes (RMQCs) and nine Rubber tyred gantry cranes (RTCGs) and has also made 15% advance payment. The 
financial closure has been achieved and the debt has been tied-up. CARE Ratings understands that the progress of the project is 
in line with the scheduled project progress. JMBPL has strong execution track record with successful execution of multiple projects 
at Kandla, Paradip and expansion at Vizag terminal. However, the project progress as per the envisaged timelines and cost will 
be important from the credit perspective. 
Revenue volatility risk and susceptibility to economic cycles:  
As per the CA, TICTPL has payments in terms of royalty based on cargo handled and annual license fee payment to VOC  along 
with MGT specification . TICTPL has to pay the port authority a royalty of ₹1,900.44 per TEU of container handled (escalated 
based on WPI annually). This apart, an annual license fee of ₹1 is to be paid by the company. As per the Major Port Authorities 
Act 2021, in case of public private partnership (PPP) projects commence after such act, the concessionaire can fix the tariff based 
on market conditions and accordingly, TICTPL has the rights to fix the tariff based on market conditions. However, with presence 
of MGT clauses in the CA  (which ramps up gradually from 13% of the capacity in first year to 70% by sixth year) , any 
unprecedented slowdown in the economy, may challenge TICTPL in volatility of the volumes. Also, the port/shipping sector is 
susceptible to the downturn in the economy as well as local government policies regulating trade. Hence, TICTPL remains exposed 
to the risks arising out of macroeconomic headwinds along with variations in EXIM trade, which may impact the overall revenue  
profile and profitability of the company. 
Competition from other existing/upcoming container terminals in southern region and existing container 
terminals at VOC port:  
Due to the presence of many major and non -major ports in the southern region of India, TICTPL faces tough competition from 
other existing as well as upcoming container terminals operators at ports such as Cochin port, Vizhinjam port, Chennai port, New 
Mangalore port, Ennore port etc. along with other existing container terminal operators at VOC, Tuticorin which is also susceptible 
to competitive tariffs. 
Assumptions/Covenants: Not applicable 

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
 
4 CARE Ratings Ltd. 
 
Press Release  
Environment, social, and governance (ESG) risks: Not applicable 
Applicable criteria 
Definition of Default 
Factoring Linkages Parent Sub JV Group 
Liquidity Analysis of Non-financial sector entities 
Rating Outlook and Rating Watch 
Port & Port services 
Financial Ratios – Non financial Sector 
Infrastructure Sector Ratings 
Short Term Instruments 
About the company and industry 
Industry classification 
Macro Economic Indicator Sector Industry Basic Industry 
Services Services  Transport Infrastructure  Port & Port services  
TICTPL was incorporated on August 24, 2022 as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) of JMBPL to undertake the conversion of berth 
no. 9 to container terminal and operate & maintain the terminal at V.O. Chidambaranar Port (VOC), Tuticorin  on DBFOT basis. 
The concession agreement (CA) between VOC and TICTPL was signed on September 03, 2022 for 30 years (including the 
construction period of 21 months) starting from date of award (DOA) of concession from April 06, 2023 to April 05, 2053.  The 
project will be funded in debt -to-equity ratio of 70:30. The container terminal will have a handling capacity of 6 lakh TEUs and 
has scheduled project completion date (SPCD) of January 05, 2025 (21 months from DOA). 
Brief financials: Not applicable as project stage entity 
Status of non-cooperation with previous CRA: Not applicable 
Any other information: Not applicable 
Rating history for last three years: Please refer Annexure-2 
Covenants of rated instrument / facility: Detailed explanation of covenants of the rated instruments/facilities is given in 
Annexure-3 
Complexity level of various instruments rated: Annexure-4 
Lender details: Annexure-5 
Annexure-1: Details of instruments/facilities 
Name of the 
Instrument ISIN 
Date of 
Issuance 
(DD-
MM-
YYYY) 
Coupon 
Rate (%) 
Maturity 
Date 
(DD-
MM-
YYYY) 
Size of 
the Issue 
(₹ crore) 
Rating Assigned along 
with Rating Outlook 
Fund-based - LT-Term Loan  - - January 
2043 432.41 CARE A (RWD) 
Non-fund-based - LT-Bank 
Guarantee  - - - 50.00 CARE A (RWD) 
Non-fund-based - ST-Credit 
Exposure Limit  - - - 35.00 CARE A1 (RWD) 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
 
5 CARE Ratings Ltd. 
 
Press Release  
Annexure-2: Rating history for the last three years 
Sr. 
No. 
Name of the 
Instrument/Bank 
Facilities 
Current Ratings  Rating History 
Type  
Amount 
Outstanding 
(₹ crore)  
Rating  
Date(s) 
and 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in 2024-
2025 
Date(s) 
and 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in 2023-
2024 
Date(s) 
and 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in 2022-
2023 
Date(s) 
and 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in 2021-
2022 
1 Fund-based - LT-
Term Loan LT 432.41 CARE A 
(RWD) - 
1)CARE A; 
Stable  
(05-Mar-24) 
- - 
2 Non-fund-based - 
LT-Bank Guarantee LT 50.00 CARE A 
(RWD) - 
1)CARE A; 
Stable  
(05-Mar-24) 
- - 
3 
Non-fund-based - 
ST-Credit Exposure 
Limit 
ST 35.00 
CARE 
A1 
(RWD) 
- 1)CARE A1  
(05-Mar-24) - - 
 LT: Long term, ST: Short term 
Annexure-3: Detailed explanation of covenants of the rated instruments/facilities : Not applicable 
Annexure-4: Complexity level of the various instruments rated 
Sr. No. Name of the Instrument Complexity Level 
1 Fund-based - LT-Term Loan Simple 
2 Non-fund-based - LT-Bank Guarantee Simple 
3 Non-fund-based - ST-Credit Exposure Limit Simple 
Annexure-5: Lender details 
To view the lender wise details of bank facilities please click here 
 
Note on the complexity levels of the rated instruments: CARE Ratings has classified instruments rated by it on the basis 
of complexity. Investors/market intermediaries/regulators or others are welcome to write to care@careedge.in for any 
clarifications. 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
 
6 CARE Ratings Ltd. 
 
Press Release  
Contact us 
 
Media Contact      
   
Mradul Mishra 
Director 
CARE Ratings Limited 
Phone: +91-22-6754 3596 
E-mail: mradul.mishra@careedge.in 
 
Relationship Contact  
 
Saikat Roy 
Senior Director 
CARE Ratings Limited 
Phone: +91-22-6754 3404 
E-mail: saikat.roy@careedge.in 
 
 
Analytical Contacts 
 
Puja Jalan 
Director 
CARE Ratings Limited 
Phone: 914040020131 
E-mail: puja.jalan@careedge.in 
 
Tej Kiran Ghattamaneni 
Assistant Director 
CARE Ratings Limited 
Phone: 914040020131 
E-mail: tej.kiran@careedge.in 
 
Renil Kotak 
Analyst 
CARE Ratings Limited 
E-mail: renil.kotak@careedge.in 
 
About us:  
Established in 1993, CARE Ratings is one of the leading credit rating agencies in India. Registered under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, it has been acknowledged as an External Credit Assessment Institution by the RBI. With an equitable 
position in the Indian capital market, CARE Ratings provides a wide array of credit rating services that help corporates raise capital 
and enable investors to make informed decisions. With an established track record of rating companies over almost three decades, 
CARE Ratings follows a robust and transparent rating process that leverages its domain and analytical expertise, backed by the 
methodologies congruent with the international best practices. CARE Ratings has played a pivotal role in developing bank debt  
and capital market instruments, including commercial papers, corporate bonds and debentures, and structured credit.  
 
Disclaimer: 
The ratings issued by CARE Ratings are opinions on the likelihood of timely payment of the obligations under the rated instru ment and are not recommendations to 
sanction, renew, disburse, or recall the concerned bank facilities or to buy, sell, or hold any  security. These ratings do not convey suitability or price for the investor. 
The agency does not constitute an audit on the rated entity. CARE Ratings has based its ratings/outlook based on information obtained from reliable and credible 
sources. CARE Ratings does not, however, guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of any information and is not responsible for any e rrors or omissions 
and the results obtained from the use of such information. Most entities whose bank facilities/instruments are r ated by CARE Ratings have paid a credit rating fee, 
based on the amount and type of bank facilities/instruments. CARE Ratings or its subsidiaries/associates may also be involved with other commercial transactions with 
the entity. In case of partnership/pro prietary concerns, the rating/outlook assigned by CARE Ratings is, inter -alia, based on the capital deployed by the 
partners/proprietors and the current financial strength of the firm. The ratings/outlook may change in case of withdrawal of capital, or the unsecured loans brought 
in by the partners/proprietors in addition to the financial performance and other relevant factors. CARE Ratings is not respo nsible for any errors and states that it has 
no financial liability whatsoever to the users of the ratings of CARE Ratings. The ratings of CARE Ratings do not factor in any rating -related trigger clauses as per the 
terms of the facilities/instruments, which may involve acceleration of payments in case of rating downgrades. However, if any  such clauses are intr oduced and 
triggered, the ratings may see volatility and sharp downgrades.  
 
For the detailed Rationale Report and subscription information,  
please visit www.careedge.in 