International Peace Institute
KPMG Forensic Review




December 18, 2020
______

Client Confidential
Contents
Background ................................................................................................................................................... 1

Limitations .................................................................................................................................................... 2

Executive Summary ...................................................................................................................................... 3

Scope ............................................................................................................................................................. 4

Methodology ................................................................................................................................................. 5

Summary Observations ................................................................................................................................. 7

Appendix A – Entity List ............................................................................................................................ 10




Client Confidential

© 2020 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG global organization of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a
private English company limited by guarantee. All rights reserved. NDP142632-1A

The KPMG name and logo are trademarks used under license by the independent member firms of the KPMG global organization.
Background
On November 13, 2020, KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) was retained by Perlman & Perlman LLP (“Counsel”), as
attorney on behalf of International Peace Institute (“IPI”), to review certain financial transactions between
Jeffrey Epstein and IPI for the period from January 1, 2010 to October 31, 2020 (“the period under review”).
This report details KPMG’s observations resulting from the procedures performed by KPMG for IPI.




                                           Client Confidential
                                                   –1–
Limitations
The observations presented in this report are based on and limited to the scope of the procedures performed
and information provided to KPMG. KPMG relied on the information supplied by IPI, and analysis of
relevant documents provided at the time of KPMG’s request. Except for the completeness testing
performed on the general ledger detail for the period under review, KPMG has not verified the completeness
and/or accuracy of other information or documents provided or otherwise sought independent confirmation.

KPMG researched publicly available information on entities affiliated with Jeffrey Epstein. KPMG did not
independently verify the public records and KPMG does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the
information. The resulting list of affiliated entities utilized in our analysis was presented to and agreed by
Counsel and IPI.

KPMG’s review of the IRS Form 990s, including the accompanying Schedule B which is not a publicly
disclosed document, on this engagement did not constitute a review for tax or other regulatory compliance.
KPMG did not reconcile the financial information disclosed on the forms to IPI’s accounting records or
otherwise validate the balances. KPMG’s review of the forms included an assessment of whether the
threshold for Schedule B reporting, schedule of contributors, was appropriately applied for disclosure
purposes.

KPMG’s services were performed as an Advisory engagement conducted under the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) Standards for Consulting Services. Such services are not intended
to be an audit, examination, attestation, special report or agreed-upon procedures engagement as those
services are defined in AICPA literature applicable to such engagements conducted by independent
auditors. KPMG is not expressing an opinion, conclusion, or any form of assurance of the financial
statements or internal controls.




                                           Client Confidential
                                                    –2–
Executive Summary
KPMG identified five (5) donations to IPI, between January 1, 2010 and October 31, 2020, totaling
$650,000.00, related to Jeffrey Epstein. KPMG also noted one (1) reimbursement to IPI for a flight in the
same period for $14,158.88 related to Jeffrey Epstein. This was consistent with the donations and
reimbursement identified by IPI in its own analysis. KPMG did not locate any instructions from the donor
that indicated the contributions were restricted. The donations appeared to be disclosed in accordance with
IRS guidance on IRS Form 990.

KPMG did not identify any expense reimbursements that were paid to Jeffrey Epstein directly or to any of
the entities in Appendix A.

KPMG did not identify any payments to Jeffrey Epstein directly or to any of the 56 entities in Appendix A
and also did not identify any wider payments which related to the personal loan between Jeffrey Epstein and
Terje Rød-Larsen.
KPMG identified two (2) payments for expenses, totaling $302.36, related to Jeffrey Epstein. Both expenses
were submitted for reimbursement by Terje Rod-Larsen for a lunch he had with Jeffrey Epstein in 2011 and
flowers he sent to Jeffrey Epstein for his birthday in January 2018. IPI provided documentation showing
that Terje Rod-Larsen subsequently reimbursed IPI for the birthday flowers expense. The only IPI
reimbursed expense was therefore $122.72 for a lunch in 2011.

In relation to Jeffrey Epstein’s involvement with the Mongolian Advisory Board, which was funded by the
Government of Mongolia, KPMG identified one (1) payment made to “LHSummers Economic Consulting”,
the wire instructions for which appear to have been provided by Jeffrey Epstein’s staff. The corporate registry
information for LHSummers Economic Consulting does not reflect any link to Jeffrey Epstein but rather is
an entity registered by Larry Summers, another member of the Mongolian Advisory Board.




                                           Client Confidential
                                                    –3–
Scope
KPMG’s procedures included:

a. Identifying the timing and amount of donations (as well as any restrictions) received from entities
   identified as affiliated with Jeffrey Epstein (including “Gratitude America Limited”, “Enhanced
   Education” and the “Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation”) for the period under review. For a list of the entities
   identified as affiliated with Jeffrey Epstein, refer to Appendix A;

b. For the identified donations, whether each one appeared to have been disclosed in accordance with IRS
   guidance; and

c. Identifying any payments from, or made to, Jeffrey Epstein, or entities identified as affiliated with Jeffrey
   Epstein, in the period under review. This included his involvement with the Mongolian Advisory Board
   and payments related to the loan between Jeffrey Epstein and former IPI President Terje Rød-Larsen.




                                            Client Confidential
                                                     –4–
Methodology
KPMG performed the following procedures in the course of the engagement:

Discussions with IPI Employees
KPMG held discussions with various IPI staff to:
      i.    Confirm the scope of the requested procedures;
     ii.    Understand relevant business and accounting functions related to the recording and disclosure of
            donor receipts and payments;
    iii.    Identify relevant financial documents and data; and
    iv.     Confirm the process of extracting relevant accounting and transactional data.

Data Collection
KPMG obtained the following information for purposes of our analysis:
      i.    Donor Receipts: general ledger (“GL”) transaction detail for contributions, grant income, donor
            income, member revenue and in-kind donations for the period under review;
     ii.    Disbursements from IPI: general ledger (“GL”) transaction detail for disbursements made by IPI in
            the period under review;
    iii.    Trial balances for the period under review;
    iv.     Chart of accounts;
     v.     IPI’s audited financial statements from 2010 to 2019;1
    vi.     IRS 990 Forms from 2010 to 2019, including the accompanying Schedules A and B;2
    vii.    Vendor master file; and
viii.       Supporting documentation related to transactions of interest, including printed emails.




1 Audited financial statements for 2020 are not expected to be issued until after December 2020 (the end of the fiscal year).
2
    Schedule B of the IRS 990 form is not a publicly disclosed document.

                                                    Client Confidential
                                                              –5–
Completeness Testing
KPMG performed a reconciliation of the general ledger data and payment details to the audited financial
statements from 2010 to 2019. For fiscal year 2020 where audited financial statements are not yet available,
KPMG performed a walkthrough with IPI’s accounting personnel to observe the creation of the reports
provided to KPMG.

Public Record Searches on Jeffrey Epstein Related Entities
In addition to the list of Jeffrey Epstein related entities provided to KPMG by IPI (“Gratitude America
Limited”, “Enhanced Education” and the “Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation”), KPMG performed online media
searches to identify other entities affiliated with Jeffrey Epstein. In total, KPMG identified 56 entities where
Jeffrey Epstein was listed as an Owner, Founder, President, Board Member, Chairman, Director, Manager,
Trustee, Sole Member or part of the Epstein Trust.
The resulting list of affiliated entities was presented to and agreed by Counsel and IPI. KPMG subsequently
used this list of entities to frame the scope of our procedures. Neither Counsel nor IPI requested any edits
to the list of entities from KPMG’s search results. See Appendix A for the list of entities identified.

Analysis and Review
KPMG searched for any references in IPI’s accounting data to the entity names and addresses (where
available) of the 56 entities affiliated with Jeffrey Epstein, described in the section above. This search was
performed on the general ledger data for donation receipts, outgoing payments (including expense
reimbursement payments) and vendor master files. KPMG requested that IPI provide supporting
documentation to understand the underlying nature, description and purpose of the identified transactions.
Supporting documentation provided included:
-    Donor correspondence, checks, bank statements, invoices, journal entry detail, expense receipts and
     descriptions.

-    IRS Form 990s, including Schedule A (Public Charity Status and Public Support) and the non-publicly
     available Schedule B (Schedule of Contributors of the Form 990) for the years in which donations of
     interest were identified. KPMG’s review of the forms included an assessment of whether the threshold
     in Schedule B was appropriately applied for disclosure purposes3 and whether the donations of interest
     appeared to be disclosed on Schedule B in accordance with IRS rules and regulations.




3 The threshold for reporting a contributor on Schedule B is the greater of $5,000 or 2% of total revenue reported for that year on

Form 990, Part VIII, Line 1h.

                                                    Client Confidential
                                                              –6–
Summary Observations
Donor Receipts
KPMG identified five (5) donations to IPI totaling $650,000, related to Jeffrey Epstein. This was consistent
with the donations identified by IPI in its own analysis.

-     IPI received one donation of $125,000 from Enhanced Education, an entity for which Jeffrey Epstein is
      listed as the founder.
-     IPI received four donations totaling $525,000 from Gratitude America, LTD, an entity for which Jeffrey
      Epstein is listed as the founder.
Further details are shown in the table below:

    Donor Name      Check Date           GL Recording Date     GL Description                Donation
                                                                                             Amount
                                                                                             (USD)

    Enhanced        October 11, 2011     October 13, 2011      Enhanced Education funding       $125,000
    Education                                                  for WK Rick Hooper
                                                               fellowship

    Gratitude       May 8, 2017          May 11, 2017          Reimbursement of tickets to      $150,000
    America LTD                                                the Oslo Play

    Gratitude       June 12, 2017        June 28, 2017         Gratitute [sic] America LLC      $125,000
    America LTD

    Gratitude       November 1, 2017     November 7, 2017      Contribution from Gatitude       $100,000
    America LTD                                                [sic] America, LTD Oslo
                                                               Play

    Gratitude       April 5, 2019        April 5, 2019         Contribution from Gratitude      $150,000
    America LTD                                                America

                    Total                                                                     $650,000.00


For the five donations above, KPMG did not locate any instructions from the donor that indicated the
contributions were restricted. The donations listed above appeared to be disclosed in accordance with IRS
guidance on IRS Form 990.




                                           Client Confidential
                                                    –7–
Reimbursements

KPMG noted one (1) reimbursement to IPI for a flight for $14,158.88 from Enhanced Education.
Further details are shown in the table below:

 Name              Check Date            GL Recording Date     GL Description                 Amount
                                                                                              (USD)


 Enhanced          March 28, 2014        April 17, 2014        Enhanced Education                 $14,158.88
 Education                                                     reimbursement for L.
                                                               Summers's flight



KPMG did not identify any additional donor receipts from the entities above or any of the entities listed in
Appendix A.



Expenses
KPMG identified two (2) payments for expenses, totaling $302.36, related to Jeffrey Epstein.
Both expenses were submitted for reimbursement by Terje Rod-Larsen (“TRL”) for a lunch he had with
Jeffrey Epstein in 2011 and birthday flowers he sent to Jeffrey Epstein in 2018. IPI provided documentation
showing that Terje Rod-Larsen subsequently reimbursed IPI for the birthday flowers expense on June 29,
2018. The only IPI reimbursed expense was therefore $122.72 for the lunch in 2011.
Further details are shown in the table below:

 Expense Description                                              Date                  Payment      Amount
                                                                                        (USD)

 Meal Expense – “TRL:Lunch with Mr. Epstein (Dist)”               April 28, 2011        $122.72

 Expense Reimbursement – “TRL flowers for Jeffrey Epestein's      January 19, 2018      $179.64
 birthday (SO PO)”

KPMG did not identify expense claims that were paid to Jeffrey Epstein directly or to any of the entities in
Appendix A.




Payments
KPMG did not identify any payments to Jeffrey Epstein directly or to any of the entities in Appendix A and
also did not identify any wider payments which relate to the personal loan between Jeffrey Epstein and Terje
Rød-Larsen.
In relation to Jeffrey Epstein’s involvement with the Mongolian Advisory Board, which was funded by the
Government of Mongolia, KPMG identified one (1) payment made to LHSummers Economic Consulting,
the wire instructions for which appear to have been provided by Jeffrey Epstein via his assistant. The


                                           Client Confidential
                                                      –8–
documentation provided in support of the payment contained a printed email dated February 25, 2014, from
Lesley Groff (with the signature “Assistant to Jeffrey Epstein”) to Terje Rod-Larsen. The email contained
the instruction; “Jeffrey requested I send you the below wiring instructions for the Mongolian meeting Larry
Summers had in Davos”.
The corporate registry information for LHSummers Economic Consulting does not reflect any link to Jeffrey
Epstein but rather is an entity registered by Larry Summers, another member of the Mongolian Advisory
Board.
Further details are shown in the table below:
 Payee Description               Payment Description                 Date                     Payment
                                                                                              Amount
                                                                                              (USD)

 LHSummers Economic              Honorarium for the Mongolia         February 28, 2014        $100,000
 Consulting                      Advisory Board




                                          Client Confidential
                                                   –9–
     Appendix A – Entity List
Ref   Name of Entity                         Source                                             Apparent affiliation based on
                                                                                                public records

1     Gratitude America Ltd                  ProPublica.org                                     Founder/Owner/President
                                             Bigdatabase.com
                                             Businessinsider.com

2     Financial Trust Company                Bloomberg.com                                      Founder/Owner/President
                                             NewYorkTimes.com

3     J. Epstein Virgin Islands Foundation   Bloomberg.com                                      Founder/Owner/President
                                             NewYorkTimes.com

4     Southern Trust Company, Inc            Bloomberg.com                                      Founder/Owner/President
                                             NewYorkTimes.com
                                             Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of
                                             the Virgin Islands

5     IGO Company L.L.C                      NewYorkTimes.com                                   Founder/Owner/President

6     Southern Country International, Ltd    NewYorkTimes.com                                   Founder/Owner/President

7     Financial Strategy Group Ltd           NewYorkTimes.com                                   Founder/Owner/President

8     C O U Q Foundation Inc                 GuideStar.org                                      Founder/Owner/President
                                             NewYorkTimes.com

9     The Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation      Jeffreyepstein.org                                 Founder/Owner/President
                                             Jeffreyepsteinblog.com (Web Archive)

10    Nautilus, Inc.                         Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                             the Virgin Islands

11    Poplar, Inc.                           Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                             the Virgin Islands

12    Plan D, LLC                            Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                             the Virgin Islands

13    Freedom Air Petroleum, LLC             Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                             the Virgin Islands

14    JEGE, LLC                              Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                             the Virgin Islands

15    LSJ Employees, LLC                     Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                             the Virgin Islands



                                                    Client Confidential
                                                             – 10 –
16   Southern Financial, LLC          Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

17   LSJ Emergency, LLC               Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

18   Intercontinental Assets Group    NewYorkTimes.com                                   Founder/Owner/President

19   Enhanced Education               NewYorkTimes.com                                   Founder/Owner/President

20   Florida Science Foundation       Miamiherald.com                                    Founder/Owner/President

21   Epstein Interests                Miamiherald.com                                    Founder/Owner/President

22   Michelle's Transportation, LLC   Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

23   Zorro Management, LLC            Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

24   Neptune, LLC                     Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

25   NES, LLC                         Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

26   Thomas World Air, LLC            Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

27   Lyn and Jojo, LLC                Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

28   FT RealEstate, Inc.              Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

29   SCI JEP                          Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

30   Prytanee, LLC                    Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

31   CDE, Inc.                        Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

32   VT&T, LLC                        Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands

33   Little St. Jim, LLC              Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                      the Virgin Islands




                                             Client Confidential
                                                      – 11 –
34   Financial Ballistics Trust             Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

35   JSC Interiors, LLC                     Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

36   FSF, LLC                               Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

37   Financial Ballistics, LLC              Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

38   Southern Country Opportunity Fund,     Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
     LLC                                    the Virgin Islands

39   Jeepers, Inc.                          Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

40   Maple, Inc.                            Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

41   Laurel, Inc.                           Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

42   Cypress, Inc.                          Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Founder/Owner/President
                                            the Virgin Islands

43   Rockefeller University                 Jeffreyepstein.org                                 Board Member/
                                                                                               Chairman/Director/Manager

44   Liquid Funding, Ltd                    Miamiherald.com                                    Board Member/
                                            Offshoreleaks.icij.org                             Chairman/Director/Manager

45   Great St. Jim, LLC                     Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Board Member/
                                            the Virgin Islands                                 Chairman/Director/Manager

46   Hyperion Air, LLC                      Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Board Member/
                                            the Virgin Islands                                 Chairman/Director/Manager

47   Debra and Leon Black Foundation        NewYorkTimes.com                                   Trustee

48   Institute of International Education   NewYorkTimes.com                                   Trustee
     Scholar Rescue Fund

49   Arts Interests                         Documents filed with the SEC                       Trustee

50   Health and Science Interests           Documents filed with the SEC                       Trustee

51   Health and Science Interests II        Documents filed with the SEC                       Trustee

52   International Charitable Interests     Documents filed with the SEC                       Trustee



                                                   Client Confidential
                                                            – 12 –
53   The Wexner Foundation   NewYorkTimes.com                                   Trustee

54   Haze Trust              Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Trustee
                             the Virgin Islands

55   L.S.J, LLC              Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Sole Member
                             the Virgin Islands

56   The 1953 Trust          Court Documents filed with the Superior Court of   Epstein Trust with assets to pay
                             the Virgin Islands                                 damages




                                    Client Confidential
                                             – 13 –
