                  Statement by the Board of the International Peace Institute

                      RESIGNATION OF PRESIDENT TERJE RØD-LARSEN

                                              29 October 2020


The International Peace Institute has been a first-class institution for the last 50 years, having
been created in 1970 in partnership with UN Secretary-General U Thant.

Its mission statement all along has been to support the United Nations to deliver on its peace
and security, sustainable development and human rights mandate.

The Board of the IPI today convened an extraordinary meeting and accepted the resignation of
the President and CEO, Terje Rød-Larsen.

Mr. Rød-Larsen apologized to the Board for his failed judgment in securing donations from
foundations related to Jeffrey Epstein and in securing his own personal loan from Epstein in
2013 – neither of which the Board was aware of.

Epstein's crimes were hideous. The notion that IPI would be in any way engaged with such an
odious character is repugnant to the institution's core values.

Mr. Rød-Larsen has had a distinguished diplomatic career – not just in the negotiation of the
Oslo accords 25 years ago, but in a large number of UN-related missions across the decades.

Dr. Adam Lupel, the current Vice-President of IPI, has been appointed by the Board as its
Acting President and CEO effective today.

It is critical the IPI safeguard its integrity for the future. Consistent with this approach, the Board
will commission KPMG (or a comparable global accounting firm) to conduct an immediate audit
of IPI’s finances to make sure that all Epstein foundation donations have been identified.

In November 2019, at the initiative of the Chair and with support of the Board, IPI announced it
would donate a sum equivalent to any donations received from Epstein’s foundations to
programs that support victims of human trafficking and sexual assault.

Epstein’s foundations collectively donated more than $30 million to dozens of charitable and
teaching institutions prior to his death. Although many institutions have decided to keep some or
all of these donations, the IPI Board takes the strict view that every dollar should be re-donated.

IPI’s financial officers have confirmed to the Board that no payment has ever been made by IPI
to Epstein, despite some press speculation to the contrary.

In December 2019, the Board also adopted a new Gift Acceptance Policy to ensure that any
future donors need to satisfy a test of good character.




   777 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017 USA   TEL +1-212-687-4300   FAX   +1-212-983-8246   www.ipinst.org
Further to this, the Board today also adopted a stricter and more comprehensive Code of
Conduct regime for the future.

It is the Board’s determination that IPI’s mission must continue for the future given our loyal
staff, the effectiveness of their work and the multiple valuable projects in which they are
engaged in support of the international community.


Media enquiries: media@ipinst.org




   777 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017 USA   TEL +1-212-687-4300   FAX   +1-212-983-8246   www.ipinst.org
