          Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
          Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                       REPORTABLE


                                        IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA

                           CIVIL APPELLATE/CIVIL ORIGINAL/INHERENT JURISDICTION


                                           CIVIL APPEAL NO.2732 OF 2020
                              [Arising Out of Special Leave Petition (C) No.11295 of 2011]


                         SRI MARTHANDA VARMA (D) THR. LRs. & ANR.                       …Appellants


                                                           VERSUS


                         STATE OF KERALA & ORS.                                        …Respondents

                                                             WITH

                                          CIVIL APPEAL NO. 2733 OF 2020
                              [Arising Out of Special Leave Petition (C) No.12361 of 2011]


                                                              AND


                                         WRIT PETITION(C) No.518 OF 2011


                                                              AND
Signature Not Verified

Digitally signed by
INDU MARWAH
Date: 2020.07.29
11:43:04 IST
Reason:
                            CONMT. PET.(C) No.493 OF 2019 IN SLP(C) No.12361 OF 2011
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   2

                                             JUDGMENT


      Uday Umesh Lalit, J.


      1.         Leave granted in Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.11295 of 2011 and

      Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.12361 of 2011.


      2.         Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma who as Ruler of Covenanting

      State of Travancore had entered into a Covenant in May 1949 with the

      Government of India leading to the formation of the United State of Travancore

      and Cochin, died on 19.07.1991. His younger brother Uthradam Thirunal

      Marthanda Varma and the Executive Officer of Sri Padmanabhaswamy

      Temple, Thiruvananthapuram (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Temple’) as

      appellants 1 and 2 respectively have filed these appeals challenging the

      judgment and order dated 31.01.2011 passed by the High Court 1 in Writ

      Petition (Civil) No.36487 of 2009 and in Writ Petition (Civil) No.4256 of 2010.


                A)      Writ Petition (C) No.36487 of 2009 was filed by one T.P.

      Sundara Rajan, a practising Advocate praying that the High Court be pleased



      1
          The High Court of Kerala at Ernakulum
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         3
      to issue a Writ of Quo Warranto directing the appellant No.2 herein to show the

      authority under which he was holding the post of Executive Officer of the

      Temple and that the State be directed to take immediate steps to administer the

      Temple on the lines of Guruvayoor Devaswom. The Writ Petition was filed

      by the licensee of premises belonging to the Temple, against whom the

      management had taken steps for eviction.

                B)      Thereafter Writ Petition (Civil) No.4256 of 2010 was filed by the

      present appellants. After referring to relevant Articles of the Covenant entered

      into between the Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore and the Central

      Government which Covenant is dealt with in extenso hereinafter, it was

      submitted:-

                   “Acknowledging the terms contained in the Covenant the
                   Government of the United State of Travancore and Cochin
                   enacted Act 15 of 1950, the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious
                   Institutions Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Act’) which was
                   later acknowledged by the State of Kerala, as evidenced by later
                   amendments making specific provisions in relation to Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple and its properties and its
                   administration. Chapter II of Part I of the Act deals with the
                   Travancore Devaswom Board, Section 2(c) defines the
                   incorporated and unincorporated Devaswom, which says that
                   ‘incorporated Devaswoms’ means the Devaswoms mentioned in
                   the schedule 1 and ‘unincorporated Devaswoms’ means those
                   Devaswoms including Hindu Religious Endowments whether in
                   or outside Travancore which were under the management of the
                   Maharaja of Travancore and are separately dealt with.
                                             … … …
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                                   4
                   7. The right of the Maharaja that existed prior to the execution
                   of the Covenant Ext. P1, which is nothing but the sovereign right,
                   to control and supervise the administration of the Temple, the
                   Pandaravaka properties etc. are insulated from they being made
                   the subject matter of attacks before Courts, including The
                   Supreme Court by Article 363 of the Constitution-Construing the
                   Article the Supreme Court has held that no dispute touching the
                   subject matter of a covenant etc., shall be entertained by courts
                   including the Supreme Court. The only remedy is the one
                   prescribed by Article 143.
                                            … … …

                   10. The above-mentioned rights, privileges, status etc. of the 1st
                   petitioner vis-à-vis of the Padmanabhaswamy temple the 2nd
                   petitioner, guaranteed by the Central Government, as discernible
                   from Ext. P1 and preserved and protected by Article 363 of the
                   Constitution, notwithstanding, a few members of the public with
                   the backing of certain political parties, have filed a representative
                   Suit O.S. 625/2007 for a permanent prohibitory injunction
                   restraining the second petitioner from opening the six Kallaras
                   (cellars) inside the Nalambalam.”



              The Writ Petition prayed that Original Suit Nos.625 of 2007, 1618 of

      2009 and 1831 of 2009 be transferred by the High Court to itself and the same

      be disposed of on the basis of the preliminary issue regarding maintainability.


              i)        Original Suit No.625 of 2007 was filed in the Court of

      Subordinate Judge, Thiruvananthapuram                      alleging    that the      plaintiffs

      (respondents 3 and 4 in appeal arising out of SLP (Civil) No.12361 of 2011)

      were aggrieved by the state of affairs prevailing in the Temple and prayed, inter

      alia, for following reliefs:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        5
                   “A. A decree of permanent prohibitory injunction restraining the
                   defendants, his agents, henchmen or any other person claiming to
                   have any right in the affairs or the Temple from opening the six
                   Kallara (cellars) inside the nalambalam which is plaint B schedule
                   herein or take any articles from the Cellar in any form, in any
                   manner or for any purpose or act in any manner detrimental to the
                   interest of the deity or the devotees.

                   B. To pass a decree of mandatory injunction removing all articles
                   brought inside the temple that is plaint A schedule by the 2nd
                   defendant against the customs, practice and traditions at his own
                   expenses or in the alternative permit the plaintiffs to remove the
                   same at their own expenses and to recover the same from the
                   defendants and their assets.
                                            …      …     …

                                 PLAINT SCHEDULE PROPERTIES

                   PLAINT “A” SCHEDULE

                   Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple situated inside the Fort Area
                   with eight entrances spread over a sprawling 7.04 acres of land
                   together with numerous buildings, temples and all other things
                   attached thereto of Vanchiyoor Village, Trivandrum Taluk,
                   Trivandrum District.

                   PLAINT “B” SCHEDULE

                         a.     Kallara No.1 on the southern side of the Nalambalam
                         inside the chandanamandapam.

                         b.   Kallara No.2 on the South west corner outside the
                         chandanamandapam inside the nalambalam.

                         c.   Kallara No.3 on the north western side inside the
                         Nalambalam.


                         d.   Kallara No.4 on the northern side inside the
                         Nalambalam


                         e.    Kallara No.5 inside the Sreekovil on the northern
                         side next to the idol for Vishwaksenar.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                                   6


                          f.    Kallara No.6 inside the Sreekovil on the south
                          eastern corner towards the exit gate to Thekkedom
                          Narasimhamoorthy Temple.”


               ii)       Original Suit No.1618 of 2009 was filed by one of the employees

        of the Temple and prayed:-

                     “(A) To declare that Defendants 3 & 4 have no authority to act as
                     office bearers of Sree Padmanabha Swami Temple as it is legally
                     held that they have no authority to occupy their positions, … …
                     and for the same, necessary directions may be given to
                     Defendants 1 & 2 about their illegal occupation.

                     (B) To pass a decree of permanent prohibitory injunction
                     restraining the 3rd and 4th Defendants from forcibly obstructing
                     the plaintiff from discharging her duties as an employee which
                     she is carrying out for the past 20 years or from doing any act
                     which is detrimental to the interest of the Plaintiff in doing her
                     lawful work and for which the Defendants 3 & 4 have no legal
                     authority.

                     (C) To pass a decree of permanent prohibitory injunction
                     restraining the 3rd and 4th defendants from doing any act which
                     affects her job as a Computer Operator in Ticket Counter attached
                     to Sree Padmanabha Swami Temple.”


              iii)       Original Suit No.1831 of 2009 was filed in the Court of

      Munsiff,         Thiruvananthapuram           by     General       Secretary        of   “Sree

      Padmanabhaswamy Temple Staff Organisation” (respondent No.6 in appeal

      arising out of SLP (Civil) No.12361 of 2011) claiming following reliefs:-

                     “A. To pass a decree declaring the orders, no.5/SPST/09 dated
                     10.06.2009 and 14.07.2009 issued by the 2nd defendant creating
                     the post of “Administrative Officer” and thereby posted the 3rd
                     defendant in the said post, as void and non est, since it was done
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        7
                   by the 2nd defendant without any authority, by manifestly flouting
                   the Rules prevailing in the Temple and without legal sanctity.

                   B. To pass a decree of mandatory injunction directing the 2nd
                   defendant to remove the 3rd defendant from the post to which he
                   has been assumed charges, failing which the 3rd defendant may be
                   removed by the intervention of this Hon’ble Court.”


      3.        In the Suits, the authority of the appellants herein to be associated with

      the affairs of the Temple was under challenge, while the very maintainability

      of the Suits was questioned by the appellants. The basic issue that arose for

      consideration was framed by the High Court in the judgment under appeal as:-

                    “The Central issue arising in these two connected W.P. Is is
                   whether the younger brother of the last Ruler of Travancore could
                   after the death of the last Ruler on 20.07.1991 claim to be the
                   “Ruler of Travancore” within the meaning of that term contained
                   in Section 18(2) of the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious
                   Institutions Act, 1950 (hereinafter called “the TC Act”) to claim
                   ownership, control and management of the ancient and great
                   Temple in Kerala namely, the Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple
                   located in Trivandrum.”


                The High Court concluded that after the definition of ‘Ruler’ appearing

      in Article 366 (22) of the Constitution of India was amended by the Constitution

      (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, the appellant No.1 could not claim to

      be in control or management of the Temple as successor to the last Ruler. The

      High Court thereafter issued the following directions:-


                   “i) There shall be a direction to the State Government to
                   immediately take steps to constitute a body corporate or trust or
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          8
                   other legal authority to take over control of the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple, it’s assets and management and to
                   run the same in accordance with all the traditions hitherto
                   followed. This shall be done within a period of three months from
                   now.

                   ii) There will be an order of injunction against petitioners in
                   W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 who are respondents 3 and 5 in the other
                   W.P.(C) against opening of any of the Kallaras or removing any
                   of the articles from the Temple. However, they are free to use
                   such of the articles required for rituals, ceremonies and regular
                   poojas in the Temple until Temple is taken over by the Authority
                   as stated above.

                   iii) There will be direction to the authority constituted by the
                   Government to open all Kallaras, make inventory of the entire
                   articles and create a Museum and exhibit all the treasures of the
                   Temple for the public, devotees and the tourists to view the same
                   which could be arranged on payment basis in the Temple
                   premises itself. The first petitioner in W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 and
                   the successors from the Royal Family should be permitted to
                   participate in the rituals in the Temple like the Arattu Procession,
                   which is symbolic of the presence of the “Padmanabhadasa” in
                   the Festival.

                   iv) Considering the valuables and treasures in the Temple, the
                   Government should consider handing over security of the Temple
                   to a team of Police or atleast provide assistance to the Temple
                   security staff.

                        The Government should ensure that the opening of Kallaras
                   (storage places) and the preparation of inventory are done by a
                   team of responsible and honest officers either from the
                   Government or from the authority constituted to manage the
                   Temple in terms of the directions above so that there should not
                   be any allegation of pilferage or manipulation. Inventory should
                   be prepared in the presence of the petitioners in W.P.(C)
                   No.4256/2010 or their agents towards proof of the items taken
                   over from their custody.”

               The appellants, being aggrieved, are in appeal.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         9
      4.        The history of the Temple was set out by the High Court during the

      course of its judgment, and some of the relevant extracts of the discussion

      were:-

                   “4. Before proceeding to consider the legal issues raised and the
                   jurisdiction of the lower courts and that of this Court which are
                   also issues raised before us based on Article 363 of the
                   Constitution, we have to briefly state the history of the Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple. Even though the origin of the
                   Temple is shrouded in antiquity and different versions are stated
                   by different Authors, the modern history of this Great Temple
                   starts with Anizham Thirunal Marthandavarma who established
                   the modern Travancore State which was previously known as
                   Venad. For over 200 years prior to the re-establishment of the
                   Princely State and taking over of management of the Temple and
                   the State by Marthandavarma, the Temple was under the control
                   of “Ettarayogam” (group of eight and a half) consisting of seven
                   pottis (Brahmins), one Nair chieftain and the King who had only
                   half a vote, whereas all others had one vote each. While the
                   committee of Potties controlled the Temple, the properties of the
                   Temple were managed by Ettuveettil Pillamars, the 8 Nair
                   chieftains belonging to eight big families spread over in different
                   villages of the State. The King was a low key functionary in the
                   Committee managing the Temple and he had only a very limited
                   authority with half a vote……

                   ….The Ettuveettil Pillamars with the help of Brahmins in
                   management of the Temple plotted against Marthandavarma
                   becoming the King and they tried to instal the previous King’s
                   son as the new King in deviation of the practice of the nephew of
                   the King namely, Marthandavarma becoming the King.
                   However, in the protracted battle that followed between the heir
                   to the throne namely, Marthandavarma and his loyalists on the
                   one side and the Ettuveettil Pillamars, the Brahmins, and the
                   King’s son’s loyalists on the other side, Marthandavarma
                   succeeded……

                   …Marthandavarma took over full control of the State and the
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple and it is he who reconstructed the
                   Temple which was in bad shape after a major fire that took place
                   years back and installed a new idol. In fact, the King surrendered
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         10
                   his Kingdom to the presiding Deity namely, Padmanabha Swamy
                   and declared himself the Dasa or servant of the Lord and assumed
                   the name “Padmanabhadasa”. Marthandavarma ruled Travancore
                   from 1729 to 1758 and after him also the Temple continued to be
                   under the direct management and control of the King.”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)



      5.        The act of surrender or dedication of the entire kingdom to Sree

      Padmanabhaswamy as referred to by the High Court has been described in a

      book2 titled “Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple” authored by Princess Aswathi

      Thirunal Gouri Lakshmi Bayi as under:-

                   “Thrippati Danam – 5th of Makaram 925-ME/1750 AD

                   Fifth Makaram 925 ME/19th or 20th January 1750 AD
                   (Wednesday asterism Revait) stood witness to the act of a sublime
                   dedication, the ultimate offering possible for a crowned head,
                   carried out in supreme devotion – the Thrippati Danam.3

                   Like Arjuna before the Kurukshetra War and Emperor Ashoka
                   after the Kalinga War, the futility of battles as a means to an end
                   and the conscious feeling that the Travancore he created was built
                   on a foundation of sacrifice of the liver and limbs of countless
                   numbers who fell due to him and for him, deeply disturbed and
                   distressed the Maharaja4. Along with the love which offered
                   Marthanda Varma no satiation however much he might submit to
                   his Lord, this trauma also activated him to surrender to God the
                   Thiruvithamcoor (Travancore) stretching from Kanyakumari to
                   Paravoor which he had won and made.



      2 Published by Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan
      3 1. Mathilakam Records.
        2. Dr. A. G. Menon – ‘History of Sri Padmanabhasvami Temple Till 1758’
        3. Many historical works (too many to be listed.
      4 Sree Uthradom Thirunal Marthanda Varma Maharaja of Travancore
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         11
                   Before this dedication certain religious ceremonies like Poorna
                   Kalasa Homam, invoking the Deity, and so on were performed,
                   followed later by Mahabhishekam.5 Maharaja Anizhom Thirunal
                   Marthanda Varma arrived at the appointed time in the morning
                   accompanied by all male and female members of his family, his
                   trusted Dewan Ramayyan and other officials. In the presence of
                   the Swamiyar, members of the yogam and Brahmins, the
                   Maharaja is submitted to Sree Padmanabha Prajapati by Deed of
                   Gift carrying his signature, his entire State of Travancore along
                   with his total right on it thereof by placing the Crown, the royal
                   umbrella, the twin white chauries (fans), the Manikandha; which
                   were all symbols of royalty along with some Thulasi leaves on
                   the Mandapam. Last but most significant, his famous sword,
                   which had lashed its unleashed valour in countless battle fields,
                   the unquestioned insignia of sovereign authority which the King
                   valued the most, was also placed with utmost reverence by the
                   Maharaja on the step of the Ottakkal Mandapam leading to the
                   sanctum. Then the King received the sword back from the high
                   priest and returned to the Palace after worship. His directive that
                   any further conquest of territory brought under the rule of
                   Travancore by his successors should also be surrendered to Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy was accepted and scrupulously adhered to
                   with deep respect by the later generations.”

              The English Translation of the Original Deed of Dedication which was

      drawn up in Malayalam is as under:-

                   “We, Thrippappoor Keezhperur Veera Bala Marthanda Varma,
                   Mootha Thiruvati (Senior member) of Thrippappoor and Sree
                   Pandarakaryam Cheyvarkal, have this day, Wednesday the 5th day
                   of the month of Thai, the seventh day of the bright lunar fortnight
                   with Saturn residing in the eighth sign and Jupiter in the twelfth,
                   Kollam 925, transfer by absolute gift and dedication, to endure as
                   long as the Sun and Moon shall last, all the lands and functions
                   appertaining thereto together with all rights and dignities,
                   positions of honour and all other possessions that we have been
                   hitherto enjoying as of right within the territories between the
                   Thovala Fort in the East and the Kavana River in the West, in
                   favour of Perumal Sree Padmanabha Perumal. In token whereof



      5   Dr. A.G. Menon – ‘History of Sri Padmanabhasvami Temple Till 1758’
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                               12
                   we have this day executed this deed of absolute gift and
                   dedication.”


              Before dealing with “Thrippati Danam” or Dedication as stated above,

      the Author had stated:-


                   “The Royal Family had always been famous for the abundance
                   and lavish nature of the gifts and offerings the members poured
                   at the feet of Sree Padmanabha Swamy down the ages, from the
                   hoary past to the pulsating present. These varied from small or
                   routine offerings to ones of considerable value but there seems to
                   be no offering in the known religious history of the world which
                   merits any comparison in the sheer magnitude of emotional and
                   devotional worth, to the Thrippati Danam6 submitted by Sree
                   Anizhom Thirunal Maharaja Marthanda Varma on the fifth day
                   of the month of Makaram 925 ME/19th or 20th of January 1750
                   AD. Tradition had it all along, even before this Act, that the male
                   members of the Royal Family, at the age of one, were laid on the
                   Ottakkal Mandapam and surrendered to Sree Padmanabha
                   Swamy as his own, gaining for them the supreme title of ‘Sree
                   Padmanabha Dasa.’7 Those were individual submissions whereas
                   this collective offering of the entire State by Marthanda Varma
                   stands all by itself. Thenceforth he ruled the land as the Dasa
                   (slave) of Sree Padmanabha Swamy in letter and spirit.”



    6 1. Thrippati Danam mean the Danam made on the holy step. This offering was done by the
      King along with other emblems of the royalty, when he, after certain rituals placed his royal
      and historic sword, the symbol of sovereign authority, on the step of the Ottakkal Mandapam
      connecting the sanctum and made over the entire State of Travancore to Perumal Sree
      Padmanabha Perumal as ‘Sarva Samarpana Danam’ – total gift submission (Anything
      placed on this Mandapam becomes Temple property).
      2. Mathilakam Records – Churuna 21, Ola 89.
      3. V. Nagam Aiya – The State Manual of Travancore
      4. P. Shangoonny Menon – A History of Travancore
      7 Two common misconceptions exist,

        1. That the Sree Padmanabha Dasas came into being with Thrippati Danam and
        2. That the title of Sree Padmanabha Dasa rests only with the seniormost male member
           of the family. As is clear form above both are incorrect.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           13

      6.        After having observed that the Temple continued to be under the direct

      management and control of the Kings of Travancore, the High Court made

      following observations about the other Devaswoms and the Temple:-


                   “While the Great Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple was directly
                   under the control of the Travancore King, all the major temples
                   in Travancore were under private ownerships. Every temple had
                   large extent of properties, but all such properties were in the hands
                   of tenants who were not properly paying rent or revenue. During
                   the reign of Travancore by the two Ranis successively namely,
                   Gouri Lakshmi Bhai (1810-15) and Gouri Parvathy Bhai (1815-
                   29), Colonel Monroe was the British resident in Travancore. He
                   virtually usurped the powers of the Diwan and the weak Ranis
                   were not able to resist him. Colonel Monroe found that the only
                   way to augment the revenue of Travancore State is to bring the
                   entire temples under the State’s control and in turn, restore the
                   properties that belong to the temples to the control of the State. It
                   is under his advice Gouri Lakshmi Bhai issued the Proclamation
                   on 17.9.1811 whereby all the major Hindu temples in Travancore
                   were brought under the King. Thereafter the temple properties
                   were also restored to the State and the temples and the lands were
                   brought under the Land Revenue Department. This resulted in
                   improved collection of revenue from the lands and there was
                   considerable augmentation and stability of the State finances. In
                   fact, vast extent of properties of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy
                   Temple were also restored to it and the financial position of this
                   temple also improved. The temple had such surplus that in the
                   19th century for the needs of the State, Travancore Kings used to
                   steadily borrow funds from the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple
                   on repayment basis and the loans were repaid with interest. Ever
                   since the major temples and their lands were brought under the
                   control of the Queen through the Proclamation above referred
                   issued in September 1811, the arrangement continued until the
                   taking over of the Government temples by the Travancore
                   Devaswom Board under the TC Act of 1950. The only change
                   that happened in between was during the rule of Sree Moolam
                   Thirunal Ramavarma who handed over the temples and the
                   properties from Revenue Department of the State to the
                   Dewaswom Department of the Government, from which it was
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        14
                   taken over by the Travancore Devaswom Board on it’s
                   constitution. From the history of the temples in Travancore which
                   we have taken from the book written by Dr. R. Madhu Devan Nair
                   and published by the Travancore Devaswom Board, what is clear
                   is that for over one and a half centuries the temples were under
                   the Government Departments and thereafter under the Devaswom
                   Board constituted under the TC Act.

                   So far as the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple is concerned, the
                   only difference is that the temple was under the direct control of
                   the Travancore King. However, this temple was also treated as a
                   State/public temple and was never regarded as private property of
                   the Travancore King or as his family property. The system of the
                   Travancore King running the Temple continued during the period
                   of the last ruler who was the King from 1931 to 1949 when the
                   Agreement of Accession was signed integrating the Princely
                   States of Travancore and Cochin as one and bringing the
                   Travancore-Cochin as Part B State under the Constitution.
                   Government of India was also a signatory to the Agreement of
                   Accession signed between the Kings of Travancore and Cochin
                   constituting the Travancore Cochin State. An authentic statement
                   about the history, status and position of this Temple is available
                   in the book “Integration of Indian States” written by Sri. V. P.
                   Menon who played an important role in the integration of Indian
                   States and who represented Union Government as a signatory to
                   the Travancore-Cochin Accession Agreement...”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)


      7.        Mr. V. P. Menon who was the Constitutional Advisor to the Governor

      General till 1947 and Secretary to the Ministry of States played a stellar role in

      the integration of the princely States into the Dominion of India. In his book

      titled, “Story of Integration of the Indian States”, Mr. Menon dealt with

      “Travancore – Cochin” in Chapter XIV and he wrote:-


                   “The ruling family of Travancore traces its descent from the
                   ancient Chera kings of South India. In later historic times,
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           15
                   Travancore was split up into a number of petty principalities. The
                   consolidation of these into a single State was the achievement of
                   Rajah Marthanda Varma, who ruled in the first half of the
                   eighteenth century. He brought the whole of Travancore under his
                   sway, established order and settled the country. In January 1750,
                   he formally and solemnly dedicated the State to Sri Padmanabha,
                   the tutelary deity of his family; and he and his successors have
                   ever since ruled as ‘Dasas’, or servants of that deity. The present
                   ruler, Sir Rama Varma8 succeeded to the gaddi in 1924 at the age
                   of twelve and was invested with full ruling powers in November
                   1931. During his rule the revenues of the State were nearly
                   quadrupled from a little over Rs. 2.5 crore to over Rs. 9.5 crore.

                   The present Maharajah of Cochin, Sir Rama Varma, is, on the
                   other hand, well advanced in age. In fact, for over a century, the
                   Maharajahs of Cochin had all been fairly old when they
                   succeeded to the gaddi. The ruling family of Cochin claims to be
                   directly descended from Cheraman Perumal, who once ruled
                   Kerala. Hyder Ali and later Tippu Sultan overran the territories of
                   Cochin in the latter half of the eighteen century, and this brough
                   about an alliance with the English East India Company when, in
                   1791, the Maharajah agreed to become their tributary.

                   The ruling families in both the States follow the
                   Marumakkathayam law, or the law of inheritance through the
                   female line. The Maharajah, assuming that he has no brother, is
                   succeeded by his sister’s eldest son. This is generally the law
                   followed by the majority of the Malayalam-speaking Hindus in
                   both States.
                                            … … …

                   He added that he governed the State on behalf and as a servant of
                   Sri Padmanabha and that he attached great importance to this
                   position being maintained; that if no satisfactory solution on these
                   points was possible, and if the Government of India still insisted
                   on the integration of the two States he would rather abdicate than
                   act against his convictions.
                                               … … …

                   Lastly, he felt that on account of the dedication of the State to Sri
                   Padmanabha and the special loyalty and devotion which the rulers

      8 His titles are: Major-General. Sri Padmanabha Dasa, Vanchipala, Sir Bala Rama Varma,

      Kulasekhara Kiritapati, Manney Sultan, Maharaja Raja Rama raja Bahadur, Shamsher Jang.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         16
                   of Travancore owed to that deity, it would not be possible for him
                   to take the usual oath of office as Rajpramukh.
                                              … … …

                   I reached Trivandrum on 21 May and had several meetings with
                   the Maharajah. I told him that, with goodwill on both sides, there
                   was no reason why we should not come to an agreement. The first
                   hurdle was the Maharajah’s inability to take the oath of office as
                   head of the State. The devotion of the present Maharajah to Sri
                   Padmanabha borders on fanaticism; he rules the State not as its
                   head but as a servant of the tutelary deity.
                                              … … ….

                   A problem peculiar to Travancore-Cochin related to the
                   properties attached to temples, called Devaswoms. It is necessary
                   to give some explanation of the history of the Devaswoms in each
                   of these States.

                   Travancore had been ruled by an unbroken line of Hindu kings
                   from the earliest times and had retained throughout the centuries
                   its essential character of a Hindu State. The most important
                   temple in this State has always been, and still is, the Sri
                   Padmanabha temple, richly endowed and possessing very
                   extensive landed properties. These were originally managed by a
                   Yogam (or Synod) of eight hereditary trustees and the ruler, but at
                   the beginning of the eighteenth century the Yogam was ousted and
                   the administration of the temple together with its properties was
                   taken over entirely by the ruler. Thereafter the temple properties
                   became intermixed with the properties of the State. The State
                   continued however to contribute to the maintenance of the temple
                   and the religious ceremonies. This state of affairs continued until
                   the time of the integration of the two States.

                   Apart from this temple, there were a large number of Devaswoms
                   in the State founded and endowed by the people and managed by
                   ooralars, or trustees. From ancient times, the Maharajah had
                   Melkoima rights (the right of superior authority or overlordship)
                   over the trustees. Before 1811, the State had no direct concern in
                   the management of these temples; in that year Colonel Munro, the
                   then British Resident for Travancore and Cochin, assumed the
                   Dewanship and, in exercise of the Melkoima right of the
                   Maharajah, took over the management of the Devaswoms in
                   Travancore. Three hundred and forty-eight major and 1,123
                   minor Devaswoms with all their properties, were thus taken over
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           17
                   for management. Even then their income was considerable. In
                   course of time, the management of yet more was assumed.

                   A good deal of agitation was excited on the ground that the
                   Government of the State were spending less on the maintenance
                   of the temples and on the religious ceremonies than the amount
                   of revenue which accrued from the Devaswom properties and that
                   they were appropriating the balance of the income to themselves.
                   In the end, the legal position was put beyond doubt by the issue
                   of a proclamation by the Maharajah whereby the Government of
                   the State accepted the obligation of maintaining the temples in an
                   efficient condition, and all lawsuits against them were barred. In
                   1946, the Maharajah issued another proclamation which fixed the
                   amount payable every year to the temples at a figure of not less
                   than Rs.25 lakhs and reserved the right of making further
                   contributions if necessary from the State revenue. Finally, in
                   1948, immediately before the grant of responsible government, a
                   proclamation was issued by which a yearly sum of Rs.50 lakhs
                   was fixed for the maintenance of all the temples in the State, other
                   than the Sri Padmanabha temple which was to receive Rs.1 lakh
                   annually.

                   Hindu opinion in the State was unanimous in holding not only
                   that the continued payment of the existing allotments should be
                   guaranteed, but also that adequate compensation should be given
                   in respect of the properties taken over by the Government and the
                   profits derived from them. The annual contribution thus claimed
                   ranged from Rs.1 Crore to Rs.2 Crore. Obviously, this plea could
                   not be accepted; at the same time it was impossible to decline the
                   obligation of maintaining these temples, the State having taken
                   over all their properties.

                   I discussed the question with the ministries, as well as with the
                   Maharajah of Travancore. Eventually we came to an agreement
                   by which the annual payment of Rs.51 lakhs made to the temples
                   by the Travancore Government would be continued and out of
                   this amount a sum of Rs.6 lakhs would be contributed annually
                   for the maintenance of the Sri Padmanabha temple.

                   The most difficult issue related to the administration of this grant.
                   After prolonged discussion it was agreed that the administration
                   of the Sri Padmanabha temple should be conducted under the
                   control and supervision of the Maharajah through an executive
                   officer to be appointed by him. It was decided that there should
                   be a committee of three Hindu members nominated by the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         18
                   Maharajah to advise him; and that one of the three should be
                   nominated on the advice of the Hindu members of the Council of
                   ministers. With regard to the other temples in Travancore, a body
                   to be called the Travancore Devaswom Board would be set up.
                   This Board would consist of three Hindu members, one of whom
                   would be nominated by the Maharajah, one elected by the Hindus
                   among the Council of Ministers and one by the Hindu members
                   of the Legislative Assembly of the Union.

                   In Cochin, unlike Travancore, the properties of the temples were
                   administered separately as a ‘reserved subject’ by the, Maharajah;
                   but after the grant of responsible government, he appointed the
                   Premier of the State to act in his personal capacity as the chief
                   executive authority for Devaswoms. The Poornathrayeesa temple
                   at Trippunithura is the temple of the ruling family and the
                   Maharajah asked for the control of the rituals and ceremonies in
                   this temple, as well as for those in the Pazhayannur temple. I
                   agreed to this request. It was decided to set up a Devaswom Board
                   in Cochin on the same lines as in Travancore. As the Devaswom
                   properties had remained separate, there was no necessity to make
                   any special grant from State revenues. The landed properties of
                   the temples, I should add, are subject to the land revenue and
                   tenancy laws of the State just like any other landed properties.

                   These decisions were subsequently incorporated in the covenant.
                   Later on, when the Constitution of India was being finalized, a
                   provision was included to safeguard the payment to the temples
                   in Travancore by making it charged and non-votable by the
                   Legislature of the Union.

                   It must be emphasized here that this provision in the covenant
                   relating to Devaswoms brought about a far-reaching social reform
                   in both States. These two States had been the seat of an orthodoxy
                   not found in any other part of India except Malabar. The Temple-
                   entry reform in Travancore recognized to a certain extent the
                   place of harijans in the Hindu society; but under the covenant, the
                   Harijans would gain a measure of control of the temples through
                   their representatives in the Legislature and in the ministry and
                   would also be able to hold posts in the Devaswom Department
                   which had hitherto been denied to them.

                   The press had been kept fully informed of the progress of the
                   discussions and during one of my press conferences, there were
                   some criticism regarding the provision for maintenance of the
                   temples in Travancore. I pointed out to the critics that the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      19
                   properties of the temples taken over by the Travancore State
                   Government had increased many times in value and yielded an
                   income greater than the amount of contribution provided in the
                   covenant. If the contribution was considered undesirable or
                   excessive, the State would have no option but to return the
                   properties to the temple. The State could not have it both ways,
                   by refusing to return the properties while at the same time
                   refusing to maintain the Devaswoms.”



              Mr. V.P. Menon thus adverted to the issues: that after dedication in

      January 1750, Raja Marthanda Varma and his successors ruled as “Dasas” or

      servants of the deity Sri Padmanabhaswamy; that the ruling families of

      Travancore and Cochin followed the Marumakkathayam law or the law of

      inheritance through the female line; that an agreement was arrived at, by

      which annual payment of Rs.51 lakhs made to the temples by the Travancore

      Government would be continued, and out of said amount a sum of Rs.6 lakhs

      would be contributed annually for the maintenance of the Temple; that the

      administration of the Temple should be conducted under the control and

      supervision of the Maharaja of Travancore through an Executive Officer

      appointed by him; and that as against such contribution the value of the

      properties of the temples taken over by the State Government was far greater.

      He also referred to the stand of the Ruler of Cochin with respect to the rituals

      and ceremonies in the Poornathrayeesa Temple at Trippunithura.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           20
      8.        On 10.08.1947 a Proclamation was issued by the Maharaja of

      Travancore which stated:-

                   “WHEREAS our Ancestors and Ourselves have, as devotees of
                   Sri Padmanabha, been ruling over the State of Travancore during
                   many centuries and our sole concern has been the welfare and
                   happiness of our subjects whom we have been associating with us
                   and propose further to associate with us in the administration of
                   the State;

                   And Whereas it has become necessary, in the events that have
                   happened to regulated the succession to the Throne of
                   Travancore, to determine other questions incidental thereto, to
                   regulate and fix the civil list of ourselves and the members of Our
                   Royal Family and to make provision for certain other purposes,

                   And Whereas in respect of succession, adoption, marriage, and
                   other matters, our royal family has from time immemorial
                   20ecognized and observed the Marumakkathayam law as
                   modified by custom and usage in Our Royal Family,

                   We are pleased to Command and Enact as follows-

                   1. The succession to the Throne of Travancore shall be in
                      accordance with the Marumakkathayam law as modified by
                      the custom and usage prevailing and 20ecognized in Our Royal
                      Family from time immemorial.

                   2. In case the Sovereign, on the date of His succession, under the
                      age of eighteen years, then , until he attains the age of eighteen
                      years, and where the Sovereign is incapacitated by serious
                      illness, the powers and authorities belonging to the Sovereign
                      of Travancore shall be exercised in the name and on behalf of
                      the Sovereign by a Council of Regency consisting of three of
                      the senior most members of Our Royal Family, who are above
                      eighteen years of age, or of such lesser number of members as
                      may be available.


                   3. Provided always that the Council shall not be entitled to
                      change the rule or order of succession or otherwise to hinder
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          21
                      or delay the assumption of ruling powers by the rightful heir
                      to the Throne.”




      9.        It may be mentioned at this stage that Section 6 of the Government of

      India Act, 1935 dealt with “Accession of Indian States” while certain

      expressions including “Ruler” were defined in Section 311(1) thereof.               The

      expression “Ruler” was defined as under:


                   “311. (1) In this Act, and unless the context otherwise requires, in
                   any other Act the following expressions have the meaning hereby
                   respectively assigned to them, that is to say :–
                                               … … …

                         “Ruler” in relation to a State means the Prince, Chief or
                         other person recognized by His Majesty as the Ruler of the
                         State.”


                After Independence, the India (Provisional Constitution) Order, 1947,

      omitted said Section 311(1).             Section 6 which was retained, was to the

      following effect:-


                   “6 – (1) An Indian State shall be deemed to have acceded to the
                   Dominion if the governor-General has signified his acceptance of
                   an Instrument of Accession executed by the Ruler thereof
                   whereby the Ruler on behalf of the State:-

                      (a)       Declares that he accedes to the Dominion with the
                      intent that the Governor- General, the Dominion Legislature,
                      the Federal Court and any other Dominion authority
                      established for the purposes of the Dominion shall, by virtue
                      of his Instrument of Accession, but subject always to the terms
                      thereof, and for the purposes only of the Dominion, exercise in
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          22
                      relation to the State such functions as may be vested in them
                      by order under this Act; and

                      (b) assumes the obligation of ensuring that due effect is given
                      within the State to the provisions of this Act so far as they are
                      applicable therein by virtue of the Instrument of Accession.

                   (2) An Instrument of Accession shall specify the matters which
                   the Ruler accepts as matters with respect to which the Dominion
                   Legislature may make laws for the State, and the limitations, if
                   any, to which the power of the Dominion Legislature to make
                   laws for the State, and the exercise of the executive authority of
                   the Dominion in the State, are respectively to be subject.

                   (3) A Ruler may, by a supplementary Instrument executed by him
                   and accepted by the Governor-General, vary the Instrument of
                   Accession of his State by extending the functions which by virtue
                   of that Instrument are exercisable by any Dominion authority in
                   relation to his State.

                   (4) References in this Act to the Ruler of a State include
                   references to any persons for the time being exercising the powers
                   of the Ruler of the State, whether by reason of the Ruler’s
                   minority or for any other reason.

                   (5) In this Act a State which has acceded to the Dominion is
                   referred to as an Acceding State and the Instrument by virtue of
                   which a State has so acceded, construed together with any
                   supplementary Instrument executed under this section, is referred
                   to as the Instrument of Accession of that State.

                   (6) As soon as may be after any Instrument of Accession or
                   supplementary Instrument has been accepted by the Governor-
                   Genera] under this section, copies of the Instrument and of the
                   Governor-General’s acceptance thereof shall be laid before the
                   Dominion Legislature and all courts shall take judicial notice of
                   every such Instrument and acceptance.”


      10.      The Travancore Interim Constitution Act, 1123 came into force on

      24.03.1948. Sections 1, 2 and 4 of said Act were:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       23
                   “1. (1) This Act may be called the Travancore Interim
                   Constitution Act, 1123.

                        (2) It shall come into force at once.

                       (3) It shall remain in force until the new Constitution Act
                   framed by the Representative Body comes into force.

                   2. In this Act ‘Our Government’ means the Maharaja of
                   Travancore exercising the executive authority of the Travancore
                   State in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

                                            …    …     …

                   4. The following subjects, namely,

                   (a) Our Palace and Our Royal Family and all matters connected
                       therewith, including Sri Pandaravaka,

                   (b) Devaswoms, Hindu Religious Endowments and matters
                   connected therewith, shall be under our exclusive control and
                   supervision and shall not, in any respect, be within the scope or
                   purview of the Council of Ministers or the Legislative
                   Assembly.”



      11.       The aspects referred to by Mr. V.P. Menon find clearly reflected in

      the Covenant entered into by the Maharajas of Travancore and Cochin with

      the Government of India. Mr. V.P. Menon had signed the Covenant on behalf

      of the Government of India. The Covenant signed by the Maharajas of

      Travancore and Cochin on 27.05.1949 and 29.05.1949 respectively

      (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Covenant’) as Rulers of the respective

      Covenanting States had twenty-two Articles and the relevant portions of the

      Covenant were:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          24

                                    “THE COVENANT
                      ENTERED INTO BY THE RULERS OF TRAVANCORE
                     AND COCHIN FOR THE FORMATION OF THE UNITED
                          STATE OF TRAVANCORE AND COCHIN

                   WE, the Rulers of Travancore and Cochin, do hereby, with the
                   concurrence and guarantee of the Government of India, enter into
                   the following Covenant.

                   Article I

                   As from the first day of July, 1949, the States of Travancore and
                   Cochin shall be united in, and shall form, one State, with a
                   common executive, legislature and judiciary, by the name of the
                   United State of Travancore and Cochin.

                   Article II

                   In the succeeding Articles of this Covenant, the first day of July,
                   1949, is referred to as the appointed day, the States of Travancore
                   and Cochin are referred to as the Covenanting States, and the
                   United State of Travancore and Cochin is referred to as the United
                   State.

                   Article III

                   As from the appointed day,

                   (a) all right, authority and jurisdiction belonging to the Ruler of
                       either of the Covenanting States which appertain or are
                       incidental to the Government of the State shall vest in the
                       United State;

                   (b) all duties and obligations of the Ruler of either of the
                       Covenanting States pertaining or incidental to the
                       Government of that State shall devolve on the United State,
                       and shall be discharged by it; and

                   (c) all the assets and liabilities of either Covenanting State shall
                       be the assets and liabilities of the United State.



                   Article IV
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          25

                   (1) There shall be a Raj Pramukh for the United State.

                   (2) The present Ruler of Travancore shall be the first Raj Pramukh
                   and shall be entitled to hold office during his life-time.

                   (3) In the event of a permanent vacancy arising in the office of
                   the Raj Pramukh by death, resignation or any other reason, such
                   vacancy shall be filled in such manner as the Governer General
                   of India may prescribe.

                   (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article, if the Raj
                   Pramukh is by reason of absence or illness or for any other reason
                   unable to perform the duties of his office, those duties shall until
                   he has resumed them be performed in such manner as the
                   Governor General of India may prescribe.
                                              …     …     …
                   Article VI

                   Subject to the provisions of this Covenant, the executive authority
                   of the United State shall be exercised by the Raj Pramukh either
                   directly or through officers subordinate to him; but nothing in this
                   Article shall prevent any competent legislature of the United State
                   from conferring functions upon subordinate authorities or be
                   deemed to transfer to the Raj Pramukh any functions conferred
                   by any existing law on any court, judge or officer or any local or
                   other authority in either of the Covenanting states.

                   Article VII

                    (1) There shall be a Council of Ministers to aid and advise the
                        Raj Pramukh in the exercise of his functions save as
                        provided in Articles XII and XIII.

                    (2) The Ministers shall be chosen by, and shall hold office
                        during the pleasure of, the Raj Pramukh.

                   Article VIII

                   (a) The obligation of the covenanting State of Travancore to
                   contribute from its general revenues a sum of Rs.50 lakhs every
                   year to the Devaswom fund as provided for in the Devaswom
                   (Amendment) Proclamation, 1123 M.E., and a sum of Rs.1 lakh
                   every year to Sri Pandaravaga referred to in proviso (a) to sub-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             26
                   section (1) of Section 23 of the Travancore Interim Constitution
                   Act 1123 M.E., shall, from the appointed day, be an obligation of
                   the United State and the said amounts shall be payable therefrom
                   and the Raj Pramukh shall cause the said amounts to be paid every
                   year to the Travancore Devaswom Board and the Executive
                   Officer (referred to in sub-clause (b) of this article) respectively.

                   (b) The administration of Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple, the Sri
                   Pandaravaga properties and all other properties and funds of the
                   said temple now vested in trust in the Ruler of the covenanting
                   State of Travancore and the sum of Rs.1 lakh transferred from
                   year to year under the provisions of clause (a) of this article and
                   the sum of five lakhs of Rupees contributed from year to year
                   towards the expenditure in the Sree Padamanabhaswamy Temple
                   under sub-clause (c) of this Article, shall, with effect from the first
                   day of August 1949, be conducted, subject to the control and
                   supervision of the Ruler of Travancore, by an Executive Officer
                   appointed by him. There shall be a Committee known by the name
                   of the Sree Padmanbhaswamy Temple Committee composed of
                   three Hindu Members, to be nominated by the Ruler of
                   Travancore to advise him in the discharge of his functions. Suits
                   by or against the Sree Padamanbhaswamy Temple or in respect
                   of its properties shall be instituted in the name of the said
                   Executive Officer.

                   (c) The administration of the incorporation and unincorporated
                   Devaswoms and of Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments
                   and all their properties and funds as well as the fund constituted
                   under the Devaswom Proclamation 1097 M.E. and the surplus
                   fund constituted under the Devaswom (Amendment)
                   Proclamation, 1122 M.E. which are under the management of the
                   Ruler of the covenanting State of Travancore and the sum of
                   Rs.50 lakhs transferred from year to year under clause (a) shall
                   with effect from the first day of August 1949 vest in a Board
                   known by the name of the Travancore Devaswom Board. An
                   annual contribution of Five lakhs of Rupees shall be made by the
                   Travancore Devaswom Board from the aforesaid sum of Rs.50
                   lakhs towards the expenditure in the Sree Padmanabhaswamy
                   Temple.

                   (d) The administration of the incorporated and unincorporated
                   Devaswoms and Hindu Religious Institutions which are under the
                   management of the Ruler of the covenanting State of Cochin
                   under Section 50 G of the Government of Cochin Act, XX of
                   1113 M.E., or under the provisions of the Cochin Hindu Religious
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          27
                   Institutions Act, I of 1081 M.E., and all their properties and funds
                   and of the Estates under the management of the Devaswom
                   Department of the covenanting State of Cochin, shall with effect
                   from the first day of August 1949 vest in a Board known by the
                   name of the Cochin Devaswom Board.

                   Provided that the regulation and control of all rituals and
                   ceremonies in the temple of Sree Poornathrayeesa at
                   Trippunithura and in the Pazayannore Bhagavathy temple at
                   Pazayannore shall continue to be exercised as hither to by the
                   Ruler of Cochin.

                   (e) The Board referred to in sub-clause I of this article shall
                   consist of three Hindu Members, one of whom shall be nominated
                   by the Ruler of the convenanting State of Travancore, one by the
                   Hindu among the Council of Ministers, and one elected by the
                   Hindu members of the Legislative Assembly of the United State.

                   (f) The Board referred to in sub-clause (d) of this article shall
                   consist of three Hindu Members, one of whom shall be nominated
                   by the Ruler of the covenanting State of Cochin, one by the
                   Hindus among the Council of Ministers, and one elected by the
                   Hindu Members of the Legislative Assembly of the United State.

                   (g) Each of the aforesaid Boards shall be a separate body
                   corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal with
                   powers to hold and acquire properties and shall by its name sue
                   and be sued.

                   (h) Subject to the provisions of this article, the constitution,
                   powers and duties of the Boards aforesaid shall be such as may
                   be determined hereafter by law enacted by competent authority.

                   Article IX

                   The Raj Pramukh shall, within a fortnight of the appointed day,
                   execute on behalf of the United State an Instrument of Accession
                   in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of the Government
                   of India Act, 1935, and in place of the Instruments of Accession
                   of the Covenanting States; and he shall by such Instrument accept
                   as matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature may
                   make laws for the United State all the matters mentioned in List I
                   and List III of the Seventh Schedule to the said Act, except the
                   entries in List I relating to any tax or duty;
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                              28
                   Provided that nothing in this Article shall be deemed to prevent
                   the Raj Pramukh from accepting by a Supplementary Instrument
                   any or all of the entries in the said List I relating to any tax or duty
                   as matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature may
                   make laws for the United State; and in doing so the Raj Pramukh
                   may specify the limitations, if any, subject to which the power of
                   the Dominion Legislature to make laws for the United State in
                   respect of such matters and the exercise of the executive authority
                   of the Dominion in the United State are respectively to be subject.

                   Article X

                   (1) There shall be a Legislature for the United State consisting of
                       the Raj Pramukh and the Legislative Assembly.

                   (2) All persons, who, immediately before the appointed day, are
                       members of the Representative Body of Travancore or the
                       Legislative Assembly of Cochin, shall on that day become
                       members of the Legislative Assembly of the United State.

                   (3) If immediately before the appointed day any vacancy exists in
                       the membership of the Representative Body of Travancore or
                       the Legislative Assembly of Cochin, it shall be deemed to be
                       a vacancy in the membership of the Legislative Assembly of
                       the United State; and any such vacancy and any vacancy that
                       may occur after the appointed day shall be filled in the same
                       manner as it would have been filled if this Covenant had not
                       been entered into.

                   (4) The Legislature of the United State shall subject to the
                       provisions of this Covenant have full power to make laws for
                       the United State, including provisions as to the Constitution
                       of the United State, within the framework of this Covenant
                       and the Constitution of India.

                   Article XI

                   Until a Constitution framed or adopted by the Legislature comes
                   into operation, the Raj Pramukh shall have power to make and
                   promulgate Ordinances for the peace and good government of the
                   United State or any part thereof, and any Ordinance so made shall
                   for the space of not more than six months from its promulgation
                   have the like force of law as an Act of the Legislature, but any
                   such Ordinance may be controlled or superseded by any such Act.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         29

                   Article XII

                   If at any time before a Constitution framed or adopted by the
                   Legislature comes into operation, the Raj Pramukh is satisfied
                   that a situation has arisen in which the Government of the United
                   State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of
                   this Covenant, he may, with the prior concurrence of the
                   Government of India, by Proclamation-

                        (a) declare that his functions shall, to such extent as may be
                            specified in the Proclamation, be exercised by him in his
                            discretion;

                        (b) assume to himself all or any of the powers vested in or
                            exercisable by any authority or body within the United
                            State;



                   and any such Proclamation may contain such incidental and
                   consequential provisions as may appear to him necessary or
                   desirable for giving effect to the objects of the Proclamation,
                   including provisions for suspending, in whole or part, the
                   operation of any provisions of this Covenant or of any other
                   constitutional provisions relating to any authority or body in the
                   United State:

                        Provided that nothing in this Article shall authorize the Raj
                   Pramukh to assume to himself any of the powers vested in or
                   exercisable by a High Court, or to suspend, either in whole or in
                   part, the operation of any law relating to a High Court.

                                              …     …     …
                   Article XIV

                   (1) The Ruler of each Covenanting State shall be entitled to
                   receive annually from the revenue of the United State for his privy
                   purse the amounts specified against that Covenanting State in the
                   Schedule:

                   Provided that the sums specified in the Schedule in respect of the
                   Ruler of Travancore shall be payable only to the present Ruler
                   and not to his successors for whom provision will be made
                   subsequently by the Government of India.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           30

                   (2) The said amount is intended to cover all the expenses of the
                   Ruler including expenses on residence and ceremonies and shall
                   neither be increased nor reduced for any reason whatsoever.

                   (3) The United State shall pay the said amount to the Ruler in
                   four equal instalments at the beginning of each quarter in
                   advance.

                   (4) The said amount shall be free of all taxes whether imposed
                   by the Government of the United State or by the Government of
                   India.

                   Article XV

                   (1) The Ruler of each Covenanting State shall be entitled to the
                   full ownership, use and enjoyment of all private properties (as
                   distinct from State properties) belonging to him immediately
                   before the appointed day.

                   (2) He shall furnish to the Government of India in the Ministry
                   of States before the 1st day of September 1949 an inventory of all
                   immovable property, securities and cash balance held by him as
                   such private property.

                   (3) If any dispute arises as to whether any item of property is the
                   private property of the Ruler or State property, it shall be referred
                   to such person as the Government of India may nominate in
                   consultation with the Ruler of Travancore or Cochin as the case
                   may be, and the decision of that person shall be final and binding
                   on all parties concerned.

                   Article XVI

                   The Ruler of each Covenanting State, as also the member of his
                   family, shall be entitled to all the personal privileges, dignities
                   and titles enjoyed by them, whether within or outside the
                   territories of the State, immediately before the 15th day of August,
                   1947.

                   Article XVII

                   (1) The succession, according to law and custom to the gaddi of
                   each Covenanting State and to the personal rights, privileges,
                   dignities and titles of the Ruler thereof is hereby guaranteed.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         31

                   (2) Every question of disputed succession in regard to a
                   Covenanting State shall be decided by the Raj Pramukh after
                   referring it to the High Court of the United State and in
                   accordance with the opinion given by the High Court.
                                           … …         …
                   Article XXI

                   Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding provisions
                   of this Covenant, the Rulers of Travancore and Cochin shall
                   continue to have and exercise their present powers of suspension,
                   remission or commutation of death sentences in respect of any
                   person who may have been or is hereafter sentenced to death for
                   capital offence/committed within the territories of Travancore or
                   Cochin as the case may be."


               At the end, Schedule mentioned the amounts of Privy Purses whereafter

      the signatures were appended.

                                            "S C H E D U L E

                   Covenanting States and Privy Purse amounts.

                                               Rs.
                   Travancore                  18 lakhs.
                   Cochin                      2,35,000.

                         In confirmation of the above Covenant we append our
                   signatures, on behalf of ourselves, our heirs and successors.

                                                Sd/-
                   Trivandrum, 27.5.49          MAHARAJA OF TRAVANCORE

                                                Sd/-
                   Trippunithara, 29.5.49       MAHARAJA OF COCHIN

                        The Government of India hereby concur in the above
                   Covenant and guarantee all its provisions. In confirmation
                   whereof Mr. Vapal Pangunni Menon, Advisor to the Government
                   of India in the Ministry of States, appends his signature on behalf
                   and with the authority of the Government of India.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        32
                                                                      Sd/-
                                           ADVISER TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                    INDIA
                                                     MINISTRY OF STATES.”


      12.       The Constitution of India made certain provisions with regard to privy

      purse sums payable to the Rulers in terms of any covenant or agreement entered

      into by the Ruler of the State before the commencement of the Constitution, as

      also with regard to the rights and privileges of Rulers of Indian States. In terms

      of Article 238 (10), which Article has since then been repealed by the

      Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, it was provided that a sum of

      Rupees 51 lakhs (fifty one lakhs), as provided in the Covenant, shall be paid to

      the Devaswom Board. Articles 291, 362, 363 and 366(22) as they stood before

      the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971 were:-

                   "Art.291:Privy Purse sums of Rulers- Where under any
                   covenant or agreement entered into by the ruler of any Indian
                   State before the commencement of this Constitution, the payment
                   of any sums free of tax has been guaranteed or assured by the
                   Government of the Dominion of India to any ruler as such as privy
                   purse:

                        (a) Any sums shall be charged on and paid out of the
                   Consolidated Fund of India; and

                         (b) The sums so paid to any Ruler shall be exempt from all
                   taxes on income.
                                            … … …

                   Art.362: Rights and Privileges of rulers of Indian States.- In
                   the exercise of the power of Parliament or of the Legislature of a
                   State to make laws or in the exercise of the executive power of
                   the Union or of a State, due regard shall be had to the guarantee
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         33
                   or assurance given under any such covenant or agreement as is
                   referred to in Article 291 with respect to the personal rights,
                   privileges and dignities of the Ruler of an Indian State.
                                             … … …

                   Art. 363: Bar to interference by courts in disputes arising out
                   of certain treaties, agreements, etc.- (1) Notwithstanding
                   anything in this Constitution but subject to the provisions of
                   Article 143, neither the Supreme Court nor any other Court shall
                   have jurisdiction in any dispute arising out of any provision of a
                   treaty, agreement, covenant, engagement, sanad or other similar
                   instrument which was entered into or executed before the
                   commencement of this Constitution by any ruler of an Indian
                   State and to which the Government of the Dominion of India or
                   any of its predecessor Governments was a party and which has or
                   has been continued in operation after such commencement, or in
                   any dispute in respect of any right accruing under or any liability
                   or obligation arising out of any of the provisions of this
                   Constitution relating to any such treaty, agreement, covenant,
                   engagement, sanad or other similar instrument.

                         (2) In this Article-

                        (a) "Indian State" means any territory recognised before the
                   commencement of this Constitution by His Majesty or the
                   Government of the Dominion of India as being such a State; and

                          (b) "Ruler" includes the Prince, Chief or other person
                   recognised before such commencement by His Majesty or the
                   Government of the Dominion of India as the Ruler of any Indian
                   State.

                                                …    …     …


                   Art.366: Definitions- In this Constitution, unless the context
                   otherwise requires, the following expressions have the meanings
                   hereby respectively assigned to them, that is to say –

                        1) to 21) ... ... ...


                         22) Ruler in relation to an Indian State means the Prince,
                   Chief or other person by whom any such covenant or agreement
                   as is referred to in Clause (1) of Article 291 was entered into and
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         34
                   who for the time being is recognized by the President of India as
                   the ruler of the State and includes any person as the successor of
                   such Ruler.

                        23) to 30) …..”


        13.     Soon after the coming into force of the Constitution, the Travancore-

        Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as "the

        TC Act") was enacted to make provision for the administration, supervision

        and control of incorporated and unincorporated Devaswoms and of other

        Hindu Religious Endowments and Funds. Part I of the TC Act comprising of

        Sections 2 to 60 extends to Travancore, while Part II comprising of Sections

        61 to 130 extends to Cochin and Part III extends to the whole of the State

        except Malabar area.


        13.1 Section 2 defines expressions 'Hindu' and 'Hindu Religious

        Endowment' as :-


                   "(aa) "Hindu" means a person who is a Hindu by birth or by
                   conversion and professes the Hindu religion:

                        Provided that a hindu member to be nominated or elected to
                   the Board under Section 4 shall be a person who believes in God
                   and temple worship and who shall make an oath before the
                   Secretary of the Board to that effect in the form prescribed by the
                   Government for the purpose before he enters upon his office;

                   (b) "Hindu Religious Endowment" means-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        35
                        (i) every Hindu temple or shrine or other religious
                   endowment dedicated to, or used as of right by, the Hindu
                   community \or any section thereof; and

                          (ii) every other Hindu endowment or foundation, by
                   whatever local designation known, and property, endowments
                   and offerings connected therewith, whether applied wholly to
                   religious purposes or partly to charitable or other purposes, and
                   every express or constructive trust by which property or money is
                   vested in the hands of any person or persons by virtue of
                   hereditary succession or otherwise for such purposes:

                        but shall not include any Hindu religious institution
                   belonging to and under the sole management of a single family:

                         Provided that, where the Management of religious
                   institution has passed into the hands of several branches by
                   division among the members of the original family, the institution
                   may nevertheless be considered as being in the management of a
                   single family for the purpose of this Part.

                        Explanation - The expression "hereditary succession" shall
                   include succession to a "Guru" by a disciple by nomination or
                   otherwise;”


      13.2      Chapter II of Part I deals with “The Travancore Devaswom”. Sections

      3, 4 and 15 appearing in said Chapter II are:-


                   “3. Vesting of administration in Board.- The administration of
                   incorporated and unincorporated Devaswoms and of Hindu
                   Religious Endowments and all their properties and funds as well
                   as the fund constituted under the Devaswom Proclamation, 1097
                   M.E. and the Surplus Fund constituted under the Devaswom
                   (Amendment) Proclamation, 1122 M.E. which were under the
                   management of the Ruler of Travancore prior to the first day of
                   July, 1949, except the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, Sree
                   Pandaravaka properties and all other properties and funds of the
                   said temple, and the management of all institutions which were
                   under the Devaswom Department shall vest in the Travancore
                   Devaswom Board.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        36
                   4. Constitution of the Travancore Devaswom Board.- (1) The
                   Board referred to in Section 3 shall consist of three Hindu
                   members, two of whom shall be nominated by the Hindus among
                   the Council of Ministers and one elected by the Hindus among
                   the members of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Kerala.

                   (2) The Board shall be a body corporate having perpetual
                   succession and a common seal with power to hold and acquire
                   properties for and on behalf of the incorporated and
                   unincorporated Devaswoms and Hindu Religious institutions and
                   Endowments under the management of the Board.

                   (4) The Board shall by its name sue and be sued and the
                   Secretary to the Board shall represent the Board In such suits.
                                               … … …

                   15. Vesting of jurisdiction in the Board.- (1) Subject to the
                   provisions of Chapter III of this Part, all rights, authority and
                   jurisdiction belonging to or exercised by the Ruler of Travancore
                   prior to the first day of July, 1949, in respect of Devaswoms and
                   Hindu Religious Endowments shall vest in and be exercised by
                   the Board in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

                   (2) The Board shall exercise all powers of direction, control and
                   supervision over the incorporated and unincorporated
                   Devaswoms and Hindu Religious Endowments under their
                   jurisdiction.”



      13.3       Chapter III of Part I comprising of Sections 18 to 23 deals specifically

      with "Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple" and said Sections are to the following

      effect:-

                   "18. Administration by Executive Officer. - (1) Out of the
                   amount of forty-six lakhs and fifty thousand rupees provided for
                   payment to the Devaswom Fund in Article 290-A of the
                   Constitution of India, a contribution of six lakhs of rupees shall
                   be made annually towards the expenditure in the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        37
                   (2) The administration of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple, the
                   Sree Pandaravaga properties and all other properties and funds of
                   the said temple vested in trust in the Ruler of Travancore and the
                   sum of six lakhs of rupees mentioned in sub-section (1) shall be
                   conducted, subject to the control and supervision of the Ruler of
                   Travancore, by an executive officer appointed by him.

                   19. Suits by or against Executive Officer. - Suits by or against
                   the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple or in respect of its properties
                   shall be instituted in the name of the said Executive officer.

                   20. Constitution of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple
                   Committee. - There shall be a Committee known by the name of
                   the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple committee to advise the
                   Ruler of Travancore in the discharge of his functions. The
                   Committee shall be composed of three Hindu members who shall
                   be nominated by the Ruler of Travancore and shall hold office for
                   such term as he may determine.

                   21. Chairman of the Committee. - (1) The Ruler of Travancore
                   shall nominate one of the members to be the Chairman of the
                   Committee.

                   (2) The Committee shall meet at least one in quarter in
                   Trivandrum.

                    (3) The members of the Committee shall be paid such travelling
                   allowance and siting for as the Ruler of Travancore may from
                   time to time determine.

                   22. Secretary of the Committee. - (1) The Executive Officer of
                   the Temple shall be the Secretary to the Committee.

                   (2) The Secretary shall convene the meetings of the Committee
                   on such dates as may fix in consultation with the Chairman. He
                   shall, after consulting the Chairman to the Ruler of Travancore,
                   prepare the age and give the members notice of the day of time
                   when the meeting is to be held and of business to be transacted
                   thereat.

                   (3) A copy of the minutes of the proceedings every meeting shall
                   be communicated by the Chairman to the Ruler of Travancore.

                   23. Existing arrangements regarding properties and
                   collection to continue. - Until other arrangements are made, the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        38
                   existing arrangements regarding the management of the Sree
                   Pandaravarga Properties and the collection of revenues therefrom
                   shall continue as heretofore."


      13.4      Chapter IV of Part I deals with Incorporated and Unincorporated

      Devaswoms and Section 33 appearing in said Chapter reads:-


                   “33. Budget and Administration Report.-(1) The Board shall in
                   each year prepare a budget for the next financial year showing the
                   probable receipts and disbursements of the incorporated and
                   unincorporated Devaswoms and Hindu Religious institutions
                   under the management of the Board during that financial year.
                   The Board shall also within two months of the commencement of
                   each financial year submit to the Government9 such number of
                   copies of the budget so prepared as the Government may direct.

                   (2) The Board shall in each financial year prepare an annual
                   administration report of the working of the Board during that year
                   and shall within three months of the commencement of the next
                   financial year submit to the Government9 such number of copies
                   of the said report as the Government10 may direct.”


      13.5     Sections 36 and 37 dealing with power of Devaswom Commissioner to

      call for periodical accounts and assumption of management of Hindu Religious

      Endowments by Board appear in Chapter V of Part I and are as follows: -


                   "36. Devaswom Commissioner's powers to call for periodical
                   accounts, etc.- It shall be competent to the Devaswom
                   Commissioner by a notice to call upon the trustees or managers
                   of any Endowment falling under the definition in Section 2,
                   clause (b) to submit periodical accounts of income and

      9 By Amendment to the TC Act effected in 1974, the expression “the Government” stood

      substituted for the expression “The Ruler of Travancore”
      10 By same Amendment, the expression “the Government” was substituted for the

      expression “the Ruler”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         39
                   expenditure or lists of properties, jewels, vessels, furniture or
                   other things belonging to the Endowments under their charge or
                   depute any officer of the Devaswom Department to examine and
                   verify the same.

                   It shall also be competent to the officer so deputed to call upon
                   the trustees and managers by a notice to furnish him with all the
                   accounts or other records or information he may require for the
                   purpose of examination and verification and also to assist him in
                   the examination of accounts and movable property.

                   The notice shall be served in the manner prescribed by the Code
                   of Civil Procedure for the time being in force for the service of
                   summons.

                   Where the officer deputed under this Section finds that any
                   movables are likely to be removed or misappropriated, he shall
                   make an immediate report to the Devaswom Commissioner
                   taking such steps for their temporary safe custody as may be
                   necessary. On receipt of such report, the Devaswom
                   Commissioner may, after hearing the parties concerned, pass such
                   orders as he may think proper.

                   Any trustee or manager who wilfully or contumaciously disobeys
                   any order passed by the Devaswom Commissioner or any notice
                   issued under this Section shall be deemed to have committed an
                   offence under Section 181 of the Travancore Penal Code and he
                   shall be liable to be prosecuted therefor.

                   "Trustee" shall mean, for the purposes of this Chapter the person
                   or persons in whom the administration of the affairs of a religious
                   endowment is vested in trust of holding any property in trust
                   therefor, by whatever designation such person or persons may be
                   known.

                   37. Assumption of management of Hindu Religious
                   Endowments by Board.- (1) The Board may assume the
                   management of Hindu Religious Endowments in the following
                   Cases:-

                         (a) On the application and the request by a majority
                   consisting of not less than two-thirds of the trustees, or of the
                   donors in cases where the donors have reserved to themselves the
                   power of appointing and dismissing trustees.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          40
                          (b) On the refusal of the trustees to continue in the
                   trusteeship or on their own admission of incapacity to continue in
                   the trust management.

                          (c) In cases where the Ruler of Travancore had the right to
                   take part in the management by appointment of certain officers or
                   servants according to existing usages, if the trustees have failed
                   to carry on their duties properly and in the best interests of the
                   institution.

                          (d) In cases where the Ruler of Travancore had the right to
                   succeed to the right of management, in part, by reason of escheat
                   of trustees, if the remaining trustees have failed to carry on their
                   duties properly and in the best interests of the institution.

                          (e) In cases of proved mismanagement although the
                   institutions do not fall under clause (c) or clause (d) of this sub-
                   section.

                         Explanation. - The word "donors' includes the legal
                   representatives of the donors.

                   (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) the
                   Board may, instead of assuming management, exercise such
                   superintendence in the management over any institution to which
                   this Part applies as to best fulfil the objects of the trust, if the
                   trustees have failed to carry on their duties properly and in the
                   best interests of the institution.

                   (3) The Board may make rules for the purpose of carrying into
                   effect the provisions contained in sub-section (2)

                    (4) Any person deeming himself aggrieved by an order of
                   assumption passed on any of the grounds mentioned in clause (c),
                   (d) and (e) of sub-section (1) of this section may, within a period
                   of six months from the date of the publication of the order of
                   assumption in the Kerala Government Gazette, institute in the
                   District Court, within whose jurisdiction the subject matter is
                   situate, a suit against the Board to set aside such order:

                         Provided that subject to the result of the suit, if any, the
                   order of assumption shall be final."
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           41
      13.6     Section 61 appearing in Part II defines expressions “Founder”,

      "Hereditary Trustee" and “Hindu” as :-


                        "(3) "founder" shall include his legal representatives;

                         (4) "hereditary trustee" shall mean the trustee of an
                   institution, succession to whose office devolves by hereditary
                   right or is regulated by usage or is specifically provided for by the
                   founders so long as such mode of succession is in force;

                       (4A) " Hindu" means a person who is a Hindu by birth or by
                   conversion and professes the Hindu religion:

                        Provided that a Hindu member to be nominated or elected to
                   the Board under Section 63 shall be a person who believes in God
                   and temple worship and who shall make an oath before the
                   Secretary of the Board to that effect in the form prescribed by the
                   Government for the purpose before he enters upon his office."

                Section 62 states :-

                   "62. Vesting of administration in the Board.- (1) The
                   administration of incorporated and unincorporated Devaswoms
                   and Hindu Religious Institutions which were under the
                   management of the Ruler of Cochin immediately prior to the first
                   day of July, 1949 either under Section 50G of the Government of
                   Cochin Act, XX of 1113, or under the provisions of the Cochin
                   Hindu Religious Institutions Act, I of 1081, and all their
                   properties and funds and of the estates and all institutions under
                   the management of the Devaswom Department of Cochin, shall
                   vest in the Cochin Devaswom Board.

                   (2) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in sub-section(1)
                   the regulation and control of all rituals and ceremonies in the
                   temple of Sree Poornathrayeesa at Trippunittura and in the
                   Pazhayannur Bhagavathy temple at Pazhayannur shall continue
                   to be exercised as hitherto by the Ruler of Cochin."
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         42
               Section 128 states:-

                   "128. Board to exercise powers under Proclamation of 1094.-
                   The powers vested in the Government and the Diwan by
                   Proclamation dated the 13th day of Edavam 1094 as amended by
                   Proclamation, VII of 1120, shall be vested in and exercised by the
                   Board and the said Proclamation shall have effect as if for the
                   words "our Government" and “Our Diwan" occurring therein the
                   words "the Cochin Devaswom Board" were substituted."


      14.      The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 enacted by the Parliament to amend

      and codify the law relating to Intestate Succession among Hindus came into

      force on 17.06.1956. Section 5 of said Act reads:-


                   “5. Act not to apply to certain properties.–This Act shall not
                   apply to—

                   (i) any property succession to which is regulated by the Indian
                   Succession Act, 1925, by reason of the provisions contained in
                   section 21 of the Special Marriage Act, 1954;

                   (ii) any estate which descends to a single heir by the terms of any
                   covenant or agreement entered into by the Ruler of any Indian
                   State with the Government of India or by the terms of any
                   enactment passed before the commencement of this Act;

                   (iii) the Valiamma Thampuran Kovilagam Estate and the Palace
                   Fund administered by the Palace Administration Board by reason
                   of the powers conferred by Proclamation (IX of 1124) dated 29th
                   June, 1949, promulgated by the Maharaja of Cochin.”


      15.      The Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 deleted Part VII

      comprising of Article 238, but inserted Article 290A into the Constitution. Said

      Article 290A is to the following effect:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        43

                    “290A. Annual payment to certain Devaswom Funds.- A sum
                   of forty-six lakhs and fifty thousand rupees shall be charged on ,
                   and paid out of, the Consolidated Fund of the State of Kerala
                   every year to the Travancore Devaswom Fund; and a sum of
                   thirteen lakhs and fifty thousand rupees shall be charged on, and
                   paid out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Tamil Nadu,
                   every year to the Devaswom Fund established in that Sate for the
                   maintenance of Hindu temples and shrined in the territories
                   transferred to that State on the 1st day of November, 1956, from
                   the State of Travancore-Cochin.”


               The sum assured in the Covenant and as reflected in Article 238 was

      Rupees 51 lakhs. However, after the reorganization of the States, control with

      respect to certain Devaswoms falling in its territories vested with State of

      Madras (now State of Tamil Nadu) and as such there was modification in the

      amount allocable to Devaswoms in the State of Kerala as successor to the

      erstwhile State of Travancore and Cochin.


      16.      Orders11 passed by the President of India declaring that the Rulers of

      Indian States ceased to be recognized as Rulers of respective Indian States, gave

      rise to challenge on behalf of the Rulers and was dealt with by this Court in

      Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia v. Union of India12. By a majority of 9:2, the

      Constitution Bench of this Court declared the orders passed by the President of



      11 Dated 06.09.1970 and published in the Gazette of India of 19.09.1970.
      12 (1971) 1 SCC 85 decided on 15.12.1970
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           44
      India to be illegal. At this stage, the following reference to the administration

      of the Temple and the right of the Ruler of Travancore in terms of Article

      VIII(b) of the Covenant in the Judgment of K.S. Hegde, J. may be noted:-

                   “186. In respect of the administration of Padamanabhaswamy
                   Temple the right of the Ruler of Travancore was preserved under
                   Article VIII(b) of the covenant. Similarly the existing rights of
                   the Rulers of Travancore and Cochin as regards the management
                   of certain temples and funds were preserved. They were also
                   given a right to nominate some members to some of the statutory
                   Boards. From the foregoing it is seen that under the various
                   covenants, several rights in addition to the right of receiving privy
                   purses had been created in favour of the Rulers of some of the
                   covenanting States.”
                                                                     (Emphasis added)


      17.       Soon thereafter the Parliament enacted the Constitution (Twenty Sixth

      Amendment) Act, 1971 which came into force on 28.12.1971. It omitted

      Articles 291 and 362; inserted new Article 363A; and amended the definition

      of Ruler appearing in clause 22 of Article 366. The Statement of Objects and

      Reasons for said Amendment was as under:-


                   “The concept of rulership, with privy purses and special
                   privileges unrelated to any current functions and social purposes,
                   was incompatible with an egalitarian social order. Government
                   have, therefore, decided to terminate the privy purses and
                   privileges of the Rulers of former Indian States. It is necessary
                   for this purpose, apart from amending the relevant provisions of
                   the Constitution, to insert a new Article therein so as to terminate
                   expressly the recognition already granted to such Rulers and to
                   abolish privy purses and extinguish all rights, liabilities and
                   obligations in respect of privy purses. Hence this Bill.”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           45

               Article 363A and Article 366 (22), after the Amendment read as under:-


                   “363A. Recognition granted to Rulers of Indian States to
                   cease and privy purses to be abolished.- Notwithstanding
                   anything in this Constitution or in any law for the time being in
                   force-

                         (a) The Prince, Chief or other person who, at any time
                   before the commencement of the Constitution (Twenty-sixth
                   Amendment) Act, 1971, was recognized by the President as the
                   Ruler of an Indian State or any person who, at any time before
                   such commencement, was recognized by the President as the
                   successor of such Ruler shall, on and from such commencement,
                   cease to be recognized as such Ruler or the successor of such
                   Ruler;

                         (b) On and from the commencement of the Constitution
                   (Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, privy purse is abolished
                   and all rights, liabilities and obligations in respect of privy purse
                   are extinguished and accordingly the Ruler or, as the case may be,
                   the successor of such Ruler, referred to in clause (a) or any other
                   person shall not be paid any sum as privy purse.

                                              …     …      …

                   Article 366 (22)

                   (22) "Ruler" means the Prince, Chief or other person who, at any
                   time before the commencement of the Constitution (Twenty-sixth
                   Amendment) Act, 1971, was recognised by the President as the
                   Ruler of an Indian State or any person who, at any time before
                   such commencement, was recognised by the President as the
                   successor of such Ruler;"


      18.      State of Kerala enacted Sree Pandaravaka Lands (Vesting and

      Enfranchisement) Act, 1971. Section 2(k) defines “Temple” to mean Sree

      Padmanabhaswamy Temple and Section 3 of the Act is to the following effect:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           46

                   “(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or contract
                   or in any judgment, decree or order of court, with effect on and
                   from the appointed day,-

                       (a) all rights, title and interest of the Temple in all Sree
                   Pandaravaka lands held by landholders shall stand estinguished;

                        (b) All rights, title and interest of the Temple in all Sree
                   Pandaravaka Thanathu lands, except those referred to in sub-
                   section (2), shall vest in the Government;

                        (c) every building which immediately before the appointed
                   day belonged to the Temple and was then being used as an office
                   in connection with the administration of the Melkanganam branch
                   of the Sree Pandaravaka Department and for no other purpose,
                   shall vest absolutely in the Government free of all encumbrances.

                   Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section, “building”
                   includes the site on which it stands and any land appurtenant
                   thereto.

                   (2) Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to the lands
                   specified in the Schedule.

                   (3) The Government may, on being satisfied that any Sree
                   Pandaravaka Thanathu land is absolutely indispensable for the
                   maintenance, upkeep and use of the Sree Padmanabha Swamy
                   Temple, or any temple attached thereto, direct, by notification in
                   the Gazette, that the rights, title and interest in respect of such
                   land shall cease to vest in the Government and thereupon such
                   rights, title and interest shall re-vest in the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple.

                   (4) If any question arises as to whether any building falls or does
                   not fall within the scope of sub-section (1), it shall be referred to
                   the Government whose decision thereon shall be final and shall
                   not be liable to be questioned in any court of law.”


      19.      The Parliament enacted the Rulers of Indian States (Abolition of

      Privileges) Act, 1972 (‘1972 Act’, for short) “to amend certain enactments
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          47
      consequent on derecognition of Rulers of Indian States and abolition of privy

      purses, so as to abolish the privileges of Rulers and to make certain transitional

      provisions to enable the said Rulers to adjust progressively to the changed

      circumstances”. The Statement of Objects and Reasons stated:-


                   “With the derecognition of Rulers and the abolition of privy
                   purse, the historical considerations on the basis of which special
                   privileges were given to Rulers of Indian States have ceased to be
                   valid and the indefinite continuance of those privileges would be
                   indefensible. However, in order to enable the former Rulers to
                   adjust progressively to the changed circumstances on account of
                   the abolition of privy purse, it appears necessary to make special
                   provisions. Some of the privileges of the former Rulers have been
                   provided for by certain enactments. This Bill seeks to amend
                   those enactments in the manner indicated below.

                   2. The immunity of a Ruler of an Indian State from criminal
                   prosecution or civil suit under the Code of Criminal Procedure,
                   1898 and the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 is being limited to
                   acts and omission of such Ruler before the 26th January, 1950
                   (clauses 2 and 3 of the Bill), and by way of consequential change,
                   Section 168 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 is being
                   omitted (clause 4 of the Bill).

                   3. The exemptions under the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 in respect
                   of the one residence and heirloom jewellery of each former Ruler
                   is being limited for his lifetime. Further, the exemption in respect
                   of heirloom jewellery recognized by the Central Government is
                   being made subject to conditions similar to those applicable at
                   present in the case of heirloom jewellery recognized by the
                   Central Board of Direct Taxes (clause 5 of the Bill).

                   4. The existing exemption under the Gift-tax Act, 1958 in
                   respect of the gifts made out of privy purse is being withdrawn
                   (clause 6 of the Bill).

                   5. It is also proposed to amend the Income-tax Act, 1967 to
                   provide for exemption of any ex-gratia payments made by the
                   Central Government consequent on the abolition of the privy
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          48
                   purse and for the omission of the provision providing for
                   exemption in respect of privy purse. Power is being taken to
                   amend certain notifications issued under Section 60A of the
                   Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 and continued by Section 297 of the
                   Income-tax Act, 1961, with a view to suitably modifying the
                   notifications insofar as they relate to exemptions in favour of
                   Rulers (clause 7 of the Bill).”


                One of the provisions which was amended was Section 5 of the Wealth

      Tax Act, 1957. Section 5 of 1972 Act stated :-

                   “In the Wealth-tax Act, 1957, in Section 5, in sub-section (1),--
                   (a) in clause (iii), for the words "any one building in the
                   occupation of a Ruler declared by the Central Government as his
                   official residence", the words, brackets and figures "any one
                   building in the occupation of a Ruler, being a building which
                   immediately before the commencement of the Constitution
                   (Twenty-sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, was his official residence
                   by virtue of a declaration by the Central Government'' shall be
                   substituted with effect from the 28th day of December, 1971;
                   (b) to clause (iv), the following provisos shall be added,
                   namely: --
                         "Provided that in the case of jewellery recognised by the
                         Central Government as aforesaid, such recognition shall be
                         subject to the following conditions, namely: --
                               (i) that the jewellery shall be permanently kept in
                               India and shall not be removed outside India except
                               for a purpose and period approved by the Board:
                               (ii) that reasonable steps shall be taken for keeping
                               the jewellery substantially in its original shape;
                               (iii) that reasonable facilities shall be allowed to any
                               officer of Government authorised by the Board in this
                               behalf to examine the jewellery as and when
                               necessary; and
                               (iv) that if any of the conditions hereinbefore
                               specified is not being duly fulfilled, the Board may,
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           49
                               for reasons to be recorded in writing, withdraw the
                               recognition retrospectively with effect from the date
                               of commencement of clause (b) of section 5 of the
                               Rulers of Indian States (Abolition of Privileges) Act,
                               1972 and in such a case, wealth-tax shall become
                               payable by the Ruler for all the assessment years after
                               such commencement for which the jewellery was
                               exempted on account of the recognition.
                         Explanation.--For the purposes of clause (iv) of the
                         foregoing proviso, the fair market value of any jewellery on
                         the date of the withdrawal of the recognition in respect
                         thereof shall be deemed to be the fair market value of such
                         jewellery on each successive valuation date relevant for the
                         assessment years referred to in the said proviso:
                         Provided further that the aggregate amount of wealth-tax
                         payable in respect of any jewellery under clause (iv) of the
                         foregoing proviso for all the assessment years referred to
                         therein shall not in any case exceed fifty per cent of its fair
                         market value on the valuation date relevant for the
                         assessment year in which recognition was withdrawn;"

                It may be stated here that clause (iv) in Sub-Section 1 of Section 5 of

      the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 before such addition stood as under:-

                   “jewellery in the possession of any Ruler, not being his personal
                   property, which has been recognized before the commencement
                   of this Act by the Central Government as his heirloom or, where
                   no such recognition exists, which the Board may, subject to any
                   rules that may be made by the Central Government in this behalf,
                   recognize as his heirloom at the time of his first assessment to
                   wealth-tax under this Act.”

      20.      In 1974, State of Kerala passed Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious

      Institutions (Amendment) Act, 1974 amending inter alia Section 33 of TC Act

      as under:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       50
                   “In section 33 of the principal Act, for the words “the Ruler of
                   Travancore” and “the Ruler”, in both the places where they occur,
                   the words “the Government” shall be substituted.”



                Between 1974 and 1991, and even thereafter, various amendments were

      made to the TC Act but Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act has remained

      unamended.


      21.       On 19.07.1991, Sree Chithira Thirunal Balarama Varma, who had

      executed the Covenant as Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore, passed

      away. Since then, the appellant No.1 Uthradam Thirunal Marthanda Varma

      had been exercising all functions as “Ruler of Travancore” with respect to the

      affairs of the Temple till the Judgment was passed by the High Court in the

      present case.


      22.       Apart from the decision of this Court in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao

      Scindia12, two cases having some relevance to the present controversy were

      dealt with by this Court during 1991-1994. Those cases were:-


      a)        On 28.11.1991 a Bench of three Judges of this Court rendered its

      decision in Revathinnal Balagopala Varma vs. His Highness Shri
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         51
      Padmanabha Dasa Bala Rama Varma (since deceased) and others13 and

      connected matters. The properties which were described as private properties

      by the Ruler of Travancore, the details of which were part of the inventory

      appended to the Covenant entered into on 27.05.1949, were subject matter of

      ceiling proceedings taken under the Kerala Land Reforms Act, 1963. The

      proceedings resulted in declaration that 191.23 acres out of the holding held by

      the respondent No.1 in the said matter were surplus over the permissible extent.

      The decision was challenged by the members of the family submitting inter

      alia that those properties were tarwad properties and ought to be treated as

      belonging to different families which constituted independent units in the

      tarwad and as such, said properties were divisible amongst said appellant and

      respondents Nos.1 to 34 in equal shares. It was accepted by this Court that the

      succession would be governed by Marumakkathayam Law. It was observed in

      the leading judgment by N.D. Ojha, J.:-

                   “62. That respondent 1 was a sovereign and the properties in
                   dispute as held by the sovereign rulers from time to time were
                   impartible has not been disputed by the learned counsel for the
                   appellant before us. What has been urged by him, however, is that
                   the properties in dispute belonged to a tarwad and were as such
                   joint Hindu family properties and the attribute of impartibility
                   applied to them because by custom only the eldest member of the
                   family could be the ruler and to maintain his dignity and status it
                   was necessary to make these properties impartible.


      13 1993 Supp (1) SCC 233
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             52
                   63. In this connection it has to be kept in mind that the mode of
                   succession of a sovereign ruler and the powers of such a ruler are
                   two different concepts. Mode of succession regulates the process
                   whereby one sovereign ruler is succeeded by the other. It may
                   inter alia be governed by the rule of general primogeniture or
                   lineal primogeniture or any other established rule governing
                   succession. This process ends with one sovereign succeeding
                   another. Thereafter what powers, privileges and prerogatives are
                   to be exercised by the sovereign is a question which is not
                   relatable to the process of succession but relates to the legal
                   incidents of sovereignty.”
                                                               (Emphasis supplied)

                It was then concluded that the properties in Suit were not joint family

        properties, but were the personal properties of the said respondent No.1.

                In his concurring opinion, Ranganathan, J. agreed with the

      conclusions arrived at in the majority judgment.                       It was observed by

      Ranganathan, J. as under:-

                   "9. One of the factual aspects on which reliance is placed by the
                   learned counsel for the appellant for claiming a family origin to
                   the Ruler’s properties is that the properties of the rulers have
                   passed on from one ruler to the next even though the latter was
                   not a direct lineal descendant. It is urged that, if the properties had
                   been the personal properties of the ruler, they would have
                   devolved on his personal heirs on his death. In my opinion, this is
                   not a very helpful argument. All the properties held by a monarch
                   or ruler devolve by the rule of primogeniture, there being no
                   distinction in this regard between his personal properties and
                   those held by him as ruler. But this need not necessarily be lineal
                   primogeniture. It could be general primogeniture, the successor
                   to the rulership being determined according to some prevalent
                   custom. The properties will devolve on the successor so decided
                   upon. The fact that the successor is determined on the basis of
                   marumakkathayam law no doubt causes the properties to devolve
                   on the next karnavan who succeeds to the rulership. But this does
                   not necessarily lead to the inference that the properties held by
                   the Ruler are the properties of a tarwad. The devolution is by
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        53
                   succession from ruler to ruler and not one by way survivorship
                   under the marumakkathayam law due to one karnavan taking the
                   place of a deceased predecessor. This circumstance does not,
                   therefore, in my opinion, establish the appellant’s claim.”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)

      b)        The validity of the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971

      was under challenge in this Court and by its Judgment dated 04.02.1993 in

      Raghunathrao Ganpatrao vs. Union of India14 the Constitution Bench of this

      Court rejected the challenge.              We shall deal with the challenge to said

      Amendment and the decision of this Court in Raghunathrao Ganpatrao14 later.


      23.       In the backdrop of these circumstances and developments, the stand

      taken by the State in the concerned Suits as well as in the Writ Petition may

      now be considered. It was submitted on behalf of the State that the Temple had

      always been accepted as that of Travancore Palace.

               A)       In its Written Statement filed in O.S. No.625 of 2007, the State

               had submitted:-

                   “As per the TCHRI Act 1950, Chapter III is headed as ‘Sree
                   Padmanabha Swami Temple’ by which sections 18 to 23 specifies
                   the right of the Ruler of Travancore in owing and administering
                   the temple. As per the said Act, Administration of Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple and Sree Pandaravaka properties
                   and all other properties and funds of the said temple is vested in
                   trust in the Ruler of Travancore and under the control and
                   supervision of the Ruler of Travancore by an Executive Officer

      14 1994 Supp (1) SCC 191
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        54
                   appointed by him. The said Chapter III of the Travancore Cochin
                   Hindu Religious Institutions Act emphatically declares the right
                   of the Ruler of Travancore in owning and administering the Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple. The provisions of the Travancore
                   Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act 1950 backed by the
                   Covenant is guaranteed by the Constitution of India in the Art
                   363(1).

                   7. It is humbly submitted that there are several great temples in
                   Kerala, which are not under the administrative control of
                   Travancore Devaswom Board or Cochin Devaswom Board or
                   under any Devaswom Committees. Famous temples like
                   Chakkulathukavu Bhagvathy Temple, Mannarasala Sree
                   Nagaraja Temple are a few examples of such family temples.
                   There are also many temples owned by private Trustees and local
                   organization of Hindus too like the Attukal Bhagavathy Temple,
                   Pazhavangadi Ganpathy Temple etc. Sree Padmanabha Swamy
                   Temple is also such a family temple trust owned and managed by
                   the Travancore Palace, and protected by the specific provision of
                   the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions Act.

                   8. It is submitted that the question whether the present
                   Maharaja falls within the definition of Ruler of Travancore or not
                   is a different matter not directly connected with the moot
                   question. The only question to be considered is whether there is
                   any public and compelling ground for the Government or
                   Travancore Devaswom Board to take over the administration of
                   Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple. The legal technicalities and
                   procedures arise only once the need for take over is established.
                   The traditional and customary belief that has been for long
                   recognized and accepted is that Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple
                   belongs to “Sree Padmanabha Dasas”, the Royal family head of
                   Travancore Palace and they command high regard respect and
                   esteem form the public. In the case of Sree Padmanabha Swamy
                   Temple, there seems no valid reason for Government to interfere
                   in the administration of the temple. The administration of the
                   temple has not broken down nor is there any other allegation of a
                   major nature, which forces Government to interfere in the
                   administrative affairs of the temple. There is no vaild necessity
                   or public purpose, which requires Government to take over the
                   temple. In such a circumstances, Government do not desire to
                   interfere or take over the administration of Sree Padmanabha
                   Swamy Temple which is traditionally and historically accepted as
                   the temples of Travancore Palace. In the light of the above facts
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         55
                   it is submitted that the averments raised in the suit may be
                   dismissed.

                        Hence, it is humbly submitted that, since this suit is
                   unnecessarily instituted, the Hon’ble Court may be pleased to
                   accept the written statement filed by the Addl. 3rd respondent and
                   the suit may be dismissed with costs to these defendants.”


                B)      In its affidavit in reply in W.P. (Civil) No.36487 of 2009, the

               State submitted:-

                   “5. It is submitted that, as per the TCHRI Act, 1950, Chapter III
                   is headed as Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple by which Section
                   18 to 23 specifies the right of the ruler of Travancore in
                   administering the temple. As per the provisions of the said Act,
                   administration of Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple and Sree
                   Pandaravaka properties and all other properties and funds of the
                   temple is vested in trust in the Ruler of Travancore and under the
                   control and supervision of the Ruler of Travancore by an
                   Executive Officer appointed by him. The said Chapter III of the
                   TCHRI Act emphatically declares the right of the ruler of
                   Travancore in administering the Sree Padmanabha Swamy
                   Temple.

                   6. It is humbly submitted that there are several great temples in
                   Kerala which are not under the administrative control of
                   Travancore Devaswom Board or Cochin Devaswom Board or
                   under any Devaswom Committees. Famous temples like
                   Chakkulathukavu Bhagavathy Temple Mannarassala Sree
                   Nagaraja Temple are a few examples of such temples which is
                   run by particular family. There are also many temples owned by
                   private trustees and local organisations of Hindus like the Attukal
                   Bhagavathy Temple, Pazhavangadi Ganapathy Temple etc. Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple is essentially a temple trust
                   managed by the Travancore Palace as per the terms of Chapter III
                   of TCHRI Act and protected by the specific provisions of TCHRI
                   Act.

                   7. It is submitted that the question whether the 5th respondent
                   falls within the definition of Ruler of Travancore or not, is a
                   different matter. The question to be considered is whether – there
                   is any public necessity and compelling ground for the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         56
                   Government to take over the administration of Sree Padmanabha
                   Swamy Temple. It is submitted that all other questions pertaining
                   to the legal technicalities and procedures arise only when the need
                   for take over is established.

                   8. It is submitted that the traditional and customary belief that
                   has been for long recognized and accepted is that Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple belongs “Sree Padmanabha Dasas”,
                   the royal famiy head of Travancore Palace and they command
                   high regard, respect and esteem from the public In the case of
                   Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple, there seems no valid reason
                   for the Government to interfere in the administration of the
                   temple. It is submitted that, the administration of the temple has
                   not broken down nor is there any other allegation of a major
                   nature which forces the Government to interfere the
                   administrative affairs of the temple. There is no valid necessity
                   or public purpose which requires the government to take over the
                   temple. In such a circumstance, the Government do not desire to
                   interfere or take over the administration of the Sree Padmanabha
                   Swamy Temple which is traditionally and historically accepted as
                   the temple of Travancore Palace. It is submitted that the
                   Government have already filed a detailed written statement in OS
                   625/2007 pending on the file of Principal Sub Court,
                   Thiruvananthapuram. None of the grounds raised in the Writ
                   Petition are sufficient to hold that the interference by the
                   government in the administration of the temple is called for.

                   So, it is most humbly prayed that this Hon’ble Court may be
                   pleased to uphold the above contention and dismiss the above writ
                   petition.”


      24.      After considering rival submissions, the High Court in its judgment

      under appeal observed:-


                   “Admittedly the Ruler of Travancore i.e. the late Sri. Chithira
                   Thirunal Balarama Varama who ruled Travancore as King for 18
                   years (1931 to 1949) and who was the Rajapramukh of
                   Travancore-Cochin for six years thereafter and who managed the
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple until his death on 20.7.1991, never
                   claimed that the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple was the family
                   Temple of the Royal Family or as individual property of himself.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          57
                   In fact, he succeeded in a Suit filed by one of the family members
                   during his life time seeking partition of the assets of the Royal
                   Family as properties of the joint family. The last Ruler’s
                   contention that he was not a Karanavan of the family and the
                   Royal Family was not a joint family were accepted at all levels of
                   litigation including the Supreme Court. Even though the last
                   Ruler executed a detailed will bequeathing his personal
                   properties, he had not included the Sree Padmanabhaswamy
                   Temple as his personal property or dealt with the same in the Will.
                   Admittedly the Great Temple was although in history recognized
                   as a public Temple run with it’s own income, contributions from
                   the State and offerings from devotees. The King ruled the State
                   and managed the temple as a State temple and he was also a
                   traditional participant in the rituals and ceremonies of the temple;
                   mainly in the Arattu festival. Both in the Covenant namely
                   Article VIII(b) of the Accession Agreement and in Section 18(2)
                   of the TC Act what is stated is that the “Temple is vested in trust
                   in the Ruler of Travancore.”

                   Obviously if Temple was the family property of the Royal Family
                   or the private property of the King, then there was no need for
                   specific provision in the Accession Agreement or in the TC Act
                   providing for vesting of the Temple in trust in the hands of the
                   last Ruler of Travancore. The conspicuous word used to qualify
                   vesting is “in trust” which means that it is for the benefit of
                   somebody. The beneficiaries obviously are the devotees, the
                   State and the public at large and all those who have an interest in
                   the Temple. So much so, we have to necessarily conclude that
                   the last Ruler was only a trustee who has retained the control of
                   the Temple for the benefit of the devotees, the State and the public
                   at large. Section 18(1) of the TC Act which provides for
                   continuous funding of the temple by the State Government at the
                   rate of Rs.6 lakhs annually clearly establish that this is a public
                   temple, though during the life of the last Ruler, he was allowed to
                   manage the same. In this context the term “Ruler” used in the
                   Covenant of Accession Agreement and in Section 18(2) of the TC
                   Act probably has only a literal meaning to describe Sree Chithira
                   Thirunal Balarama Varma who was the last Ruler of Travancore
                   and the signatory to the Accession Agreement. If at all “Ruler”
                   has a technical meaning, certainly in the absence of a definition
                   in the TC Act which was enacted after the Constitution came into
                   force, the definition contained in the Constitution namely, Article
                   366(22) has to be adopted. Obviously the first petitioner in
                   W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 or his successors of the Royal Family will
                   not come within the description of “Ruler” as defined under
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             58
                   Article 366(22) of the Constitution and the only persons who
                   answers the definition is the last Ruler and after him no one can
                   acquire that status which is not heritable. So much so, we hold
                   that neither the said petitioners nor any of the successors of his
                   family can claim control or management of the Temple under
                   Section 18(2) of the TC Act after the death of the last Ruler.”


               With regard to the submission based on Article 363 of the Constitution,

        it was observed:-


                   “So far as the contention of the first petitioner in W.P. (C)
                   No.4256/2010 that Article 363 bars the jurisdiction of courts
                   including the High Courts and Supreme Court with regard to
                   dispute arising under agreement executed by Rulers of Princely
                   States of India, we have based on the Constitution Bench decision
                   abovereferred and in view of the specific provisions of Chapter
                   III contained in the TC Act and going by the contention of first
                   petitioner in W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 itself, found that the claim of
                   the said petitioner or any of his family members over the Temple
                   have to be found not under the provisions of Covenant of
                   Accession Agreement, but under the provisions of Section 18(2)
                   of the TC Act and Article 366(22) of the Constitution. Since we
                   are considering the rights, if any, of the first petitioner in W.P.(C)
                   No.4256/2010 based on the provisions of the Constitution and the
                   provisions of Chapter III of the TC Act, Article 363 of the
                   Constitution does not stand in our way and this court has full and
                   complete jurisdiction to decide all matters arising in these two
                   W.P.(C)s., which, though are interparty cases, are essentially in
                   the nature of public interest litigations, wherein this court is called
                   upon to decide the claim of an individual over a Great Temple
                   against the claim of the devotees, public and the State as a whole
                   on the other side.”

               It was further observed:-

                   “In this case it is the case of the petitioners in W.P.(C)
                   No.4256/2010 itself that the provision of the Covenant regarding
                   the vesting of management of the Padmanabhaswamy Temple in
                   Trust in the last Ruler of Travancore in the Accession Agreement
                   is incorporated in Section 18(2) and so much so, the last Ruler
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          59
                   managed the Temple not by virtue of the provision in the
                   Covenant, but by virtue of the statutory provision contained in
                   Chapter III of the TC Act. In fact, during the period of
                   management of the Temple by the last Ruler, the entire
                   contributions payable by the State was paid to the Temple and
                   there is no dispute on that. The feeble contention raised by the
                   petitioners in W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 that the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple is a family temple of the Roayl
                   family of Travancore can only be styled as absured because in
                   several judgments of this court this Great Temple is recognized
                   as a “public temple” and in fact, it was the most famous Temple
                   in the erstwhile Princely State of Travancore. In fact, a Division
                   Bench of this court vide judgment in O.P. No.18309/2000
                   (produced as Ext.P1 in W.P.(C) No.36487/2009) categorically
                   held that Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple is a public temple
                   which is one of the Mahakshetra of the Hindus and if there is any
                   complaint by any worshiper of the Temple, that will be
                   considered by this court and the court will try to do justice. The
                   claim of the first petitioner in W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 that he
                   became the Ruler of Travancore on the death of the last Ruler has
                   no basis at all after the Twenty Sixth Amendment to the
                   Constitution. We have already found above that the successors
                   of the last Ruler including the first petitioner in WPC
                   No.4256/2010 does not fall within the definition of “Ruler” under
                   Article 366(22) of the Constitution. In fact, after the Twenty
                   Sixth Amendment of 1971, the President of India also ceases to
                   have authority to recognize any person as the Ruler of Indian
                   State or a successor of such Ruler. So much so, in our view, the
                   contention of the first petitioner in W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 that he
                   being brother of the last Ruler becomes the Ruler of Travancore
                   after the death of the last Ruler, is only absurd. In other words,
                   on the death of any person who remained recognized by the
                   President as Ruler prior to the commencement of the Constitution
                   will not have any successor in the capacity as Ruler of the State.
                   What Article 366(22) seeks to achieve is to abolish the status of
                   Ruler and under this definition clause, the status of Ruler and
                   under this definition clause, no one can acquire the status of Ruler
                   after the commencement of the Constitution much less through
                   succession.

                        In short “Ruler” is not a status that could be acquired through
                   succession. Therefore, after death of the last Ruler on 20.7.1991,
                   there is no Ruler in the erstwhile State of Travancore. So much
                   so, we hold that the first petitioner in W.P.(C) No.4256/2010 who
                   is the 5th respondent in the connected W.P.(C), cannot step into
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          60
                   the shoes of the last Ruler to claim management of the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple by relying on the powers conferred
                   under Section 18(2) of the TC Act.”


               In paragraphs 8 and 9 the High Court observed:-

                   “8. We have to, therefore, proceed to consider what should be
                   done to save the Temple and to protect the interest of the devotees
                   and the public at large who have great faith in this Great Temple
                   which is also recognized as a structure of Archaeological
                   importance by the 6th respondent in W.P.(C)No.36487/2009. In
                   this context it is worthwhile to refer to the decision of the
                   Supreme Court in 2007(7) SCC 482 where in the Supreme Court
                   has held as follows:

                        “The properties of deities, temples and Devaswom
                        Boards, require to be protected and safeguarded by
                        their trustees/ archakas/ shebaits/ employees.
                        Instances are many where persons entrusted with the
                        duty of managing and safeguarding the properties of
                        temples, deities and Devaswom Boards have usurped
                        and misappropriated such properties by setting up false
                        claims of ownership or tenancy or adverse possession.
                        This is possible only with the passive or active
                        collusion of the authorities concerned. Such acts of
                        “fences eating the crops” should be dealt with sternly.
                        The Government, members or trustees of boards/trusts
                        and devotees should be vigilant to prevent any such
                        usurpation or encroachment. It is also the duty of
                        courts to protect and safeguard the properties of
                        religious and charitable institutions from wrongful
                        claims or misappropriation.”

                   Since the deity is a perpetual minor in the eye of law, the court
                   has jurisdiction to protect it and this court has in the judgment in
                   O.P. No.18309/2000 held that Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple
                   being a public temple this court has jurisdiction as parent patriae.
                   All public temples in the erstwhile State of Travancore are now
                   managed by the Travancore Devaswom Board under the TC Act.
                   Government is also funding temples in terms of provisions
                   contained in Article 290-A of the Constitution. In fact, substantial
                   amount of contribution is paid by the Government under the
                   provisions of the TC Act to the Devaswom Board and to the Sree
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          61
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple separately. After the death of the last
                   ruler of Travancore, the present Ruler happens to be the State
                   Government and so much so, by operation of Section 18(2) of the
                   TC Act, the temple on death of the last Ruler reverts back to the
                   State for administration by it. Obviously the State being secular
                   cannot run a temple and so much so, it is for them to constitute a
                   trust or statutory body like the Guruvayur Devaswom to
                   administer the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple. The stand taken
                   by the Government has not role in the matter and like other private
                   temples run in the State, Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple is also
                   run by an individual with the help of Executive Officer and
                   Advisory Board constituted by them.

                   Government obviously has not answered the query raised by the
                   court as to whether the present management has legal authority to
                   run the Temple and if not, what is the step to be taken by the
                   Government to arrange for management of the Temple.
                   According to the Government, the Temple is fairly well run and
                   there is no need for the Government to interfere in the matter. We
                   do not thing the approach of the Government is fair, reasonable
                   or legal. We have concluded above that the provision in Chapter
                   III of the TC Act was only to give effect to the provision in the
                   Accession Agreement whereby the Ruler of Travancore wanted
                   to retain control of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple during
                   his life time. In the absence of any provision in the Covenant or
                   in the TC Act to vest the Temple in the next senior member of the
                   Royal Family after the death of the Ruler of Travancore, the
                   Temple and its properties and assets will revert back and vest in
                   the State Government under Articles 295 or 296 of the
                   Constitution.

                   Obviously if separate provision was not made in the Covenant
                   and later by incorporation of the same in Chapter III of the TC
                   Act vesting this Great Temple in trust in the Ruler of Travancore,
                   it would have gone under the management of the Travancore
                   Devaswom Board or probably a separate authority would have
                   been created by the Travancore-Cochin Government to run the
                   Temple. When there is no provision in the TC Act for succession
                   of management from the Ruler of Travancore on death of the
                   Ruler, the provisions of law will take over the situation.

                   We have already found that under the definition clause in the
                   Constitution (Article 366(22)), neither the first petitioner in W.P.
                   (C) No.4256/2010 nor any of the members of the Royal Family
                   which ruled Travancore prior to integration, answers the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           62
                   description of “Ruler” and so much so, relatives of the late King
                   have no right over the Temple.

                   So much so, in the literal sense and by virtue of the operation of
                   Articles 295 and 296 of the Constitution, the Temple vests in State
                   Government through succession or escheat or atleast as the
                   present Ruler of the State. Therefore, Government necessarily
                   have to make arrangement for creation of authority, statutory or
                   otherwise, to take over management and for running the Temple.
                   In our view, the opinion of the State about private temples in the
                   State, conveyed to us in court by the Government Pleader, itself
                   is not going to advance any public interest. Ever so many private
                   temples have assumed great importance and have accumulated
                   wealth which is nothing but contribution from the devotees and
                   public. Wherever public money is collected by temples and
                   religious institutions, we feel Government has a duty to ensure
                   that such public institutions are accountable to the devotees. We
                   feel it is high time regulatory measures are made in the State to
                   prevent plundering of the public money in the name of God and
                   faith. Public money collected in trust for the Deity or for religious
                   institutions, should never be allowed to be diverted for personal
                   gains and if it is permitted, the same amounts to permission to
                   carry on business in faith or in the name of God. The question is
                   whether the Government should allow religion and faith to be
                   made a business activity by private individuals or trusts. We are
                   constrained to observe that the attitude of the Government in this
                   matter is not helpful to the interest of the State or to the devotees
                   or to the public at large. We have already noticed that besides
                   being a Hindu Temple, where people ardently worship, the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple is a building of great architectural
                   value and it’s treasures are worth-preserving and protected and
                   exhibited for the public to view the same. The operation of
                   Section 18(2) of the TC Act after the death of the last Ruler of
                   Travancore should not lead to any orphanage for the temple as we
                   have already found that neither the first petitioner in W.P.(C)
                   Nol.4256/2010 nor any of his family members get any right in
                   management or control of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple.
                   So much so, Government being the successor to the assets and
                   institutions of the erstwhile Princely State of Travancore, it is the
                   duty of the Government to make arrangement in the same way
                   once State-run temples were handed over to Devaswom Boards.

                   9. It is a well known fact that the Temple has immense
                   treasures, some of which are centuries old and are highly valuable
                   by virtue of it’s antique value and it’s price in terms of the value
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         63
                   of precious metals like gold, silver and stones used in the making.
                   Even though we directed the present management to produce the
                   inventory prepared by the last Ruler, about which there is a
                   mention in the book written by the previous Ruler’s niece namely,
                   Smt. Gouri Lakshmibhai, they refused to produce the same.
                   Some registers produced in the Court were thoroughly incomplete
                   and unreliable. In view of the public claim made by the last
                   Ruler’s brother who is presently managing the Temple that the
                   treasures belong to the Royal Family of Travancore, the
                   injunction granted by the Sub Court against opening any of the
                   Kallaras (storage place in the Temple) and removal of any
                   valuable item, should continue in force and we order so.
                   However, the management is free to use such of the items which
                   are required for the regular rituals and ceremonies in the Temple.
                   In our view, there is no purpose in keeping the treasures of the
                   temple acquired by it in the course of several centuries as a
                   mystery and if all the storage rooms (Kallaras) are opened and the
                   treasures are exhibited in a Museum to be set up in the Temple
                   Compound, the glory of the Temple and the State will get a boost
                   and probably the Great Temple will become a major tourist
                   attraction and income earner. The authority constituted by the
                   Government should also verify the inventories previously
                   prepared and check whether any item is lost from the custody of
                   the Temple and if so, proceed to identify the persons who have
                   taken away the same and take steps to restore it to the Temple.”



               With these conclusions, the directions as quoted hereinabove were

      issued by the High Court.


      25.      Challenging the decision of the High Court, the appellants in the Special

      Leave Petition, from which the first of the instant Appeals arise, inter alia,

      raised following grounds :-

                   “C. The petitioner submits that the temple and its properties, as
                   prescribed by the Covenant dated 1st July 1949, ought to remain
                   vested in Trust and the Petitioner, being the senior-most male
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             64
                   member of the Royal family, will hold and administer the same
                   as the Trustee of the Temple, through an Executive Officer.

                   D. As opposed to the tenor, in which the entire impugned
                   judgment proceeds, the Petitioner, in the past, has donated
                   considerable amount of money, as and when it was required, for
                   the smooth functioning of the temple and conduct of rituals and
                   festivals. It is submitted that the Petitioner has always supplied
                   the deficit as and when required by the temple. In fact, in 1686
                   AD, when the entire temple was burnt to the ground, the
                   predecessor of the Petitioner, Marthanda Varma, rebuilt the
                   temple in its entirety over a period of 15 years.

                                               …    …     …

                   F. Because the Division Bench has failed to notice that the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple and its properties (also called “Sree
                   Pandaravaka”) remained vested in the presiding deity of the
                   Temple, Sree Padmanabha, even before the Trippadi Danam of
                   the State (that is, surrender of the State to the Lord by H.H.
                   Anizham Thirunal Marthanda Varma Maharaja in the year 1750).
                   The hereditary trusteeship of the Temple remains with the Ruler
                   of Travancore, and the original concept of trusteeship remains
                   unaffected; this being fortified by the absence of any enactment
                   depriving the Family of its trusteeship.

                                              …      …     …

                   Despite a large proportion of these endowments having been
                   made by the erstwhile Royal family of Travancore, and that Lord
                   Padmanabha is considered the family deity of the erstwhile Royal
                   family, the Petitioner asserts that the Padmanabhaswamy temple
                   is a public temple, and no claim can probably be made by the
                   Petitioner or anyone to owning the temple or its treasures. The
                   Petitioner as the Padmanabhadasa merely seeks to recover the
                   right as a trustee of the temple to manage and administer it, which
                   has unfortunately been taken away by the impugned judgment
                   and vested, in the State Government as the successor ‘Ruler’. The
                   Petitioner retains the right to perform all the traditional rituals and
                   ceremonies in the same manner as has been performed for
                   hundred years.”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            65
      26.      In its Order dated 02.05.2011, this Court directed:-


                   “Interim stay of direction (i) of the 2 impugned judgment which
                   directs taking over the assets and management of Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple, Thiruvananthapuram.

                   Interim stay of directions (ii) to (iv) of the impugned judgment
                   subject to the following interim directions:

                   (a) There shall be a detailed inventory of the
                   articles/valuables/ornaments in Kallaras described as (a) to (f) in
                   the Second Schedule to the Plaint in O.S. No.625/2007 on the file
                   of the Sub-Judge, Thiruvananthapuram. The inventory shall be
                   held in the presence of the following observers:-

                      (i) Two observers appointed by this Court namely, Justice
                      M.N. Krishnan and Justice C.S. Rajan, retired Judges of Kerala
                      High Court.

                      (ii) The first petitioner and second petitioner.

                      (iii) A senior officer of the State Government, namely the
                      Secretary, Devaswom Department or his nominated
                      representative.

                      (iv) A senior officer nominated by the Secretary, Department
                      of Archeology, Ministry of Culture, Government of India, who
                      is stationed at Kerala.

                      (v) The PIL petitioner (first respondent).

                         Justice M.N. Krishan shall be in charge of organising the
                   inventory, fixing of schedules. The entire expenditure of
                   inventory shall be met by the petitioners. He is also authorised to
                   seek police security at the time of such inventory. The observers
                   shall decide upon the procedure and documentation of the
                   inventory including videographing and photographing the
                   articles.

                   (b) In regard to the articles in Kallaras (c) and (d) used for regular
                   rituals and the ornaments etc. in Kallaras (e) and (f) said to be in
                   the custody of Periya Nambi and Thekkedom Nambi, the existing
                   practices, procedures and rituals may be followed in regard to the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          66
                   opening and closing of the Kallaras and using the articles therein.
                   As far as Kallaras (a) and (b), which is reportedly not opened for
                   more than a century, they shall be opened only for the purpose of
                   making inventory of the articles and then closed and sealed again.

                   (c) The inventory shall be filed in this Court and copies of the
                   inventory be given to all participating parties and observers.

                   (d) The existing temple security shall be further strengthened by
                   additional security from the local police.

                   (e) The first petitioner and his family shall be entitled to
                   participate in all temple festivals and rituals as hitherto before.”


      27.      The Order passed by this Court on 21.07.2011 noted the stand of the

      State and of the appellants as under:-


                   “The State of Kerala in its affidavit dated 14.7.2011 has declared
                   its stand on the issues as follows: -

                   Ownership :

                   All articles found in the Kallaras of Shree Padmanabha Swami
                   Temple (including objects of value gold ornaments, precious
                   stones and antiques) belong to the deity (Temple) and neither the
                   State Government nor the family of ex-rulers of Travancore can
                   have any claim over them.

                   Storage/Exhibition :

                   The ornaments/antiques are not suitable or sufficient for creating
                   a separate museum. All the articles being property of the temple,
                   should remain within the confines of temple premises. It is neither
                   practical nor advisable to remove them from the temple environs.


                   Security :

                   A senior officer of the rank of Additional Director General of
                   Police has been put in special charge of the security of the temple.
                   A control room has been made operational. A special team of
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          67
                   Police officers has been entrusted with the task of studying the
                   security requirements. Ensuring adequate security for the temple
                   is the primary responsibility of the government and it will do
                   everything necessary for acquisition of the state-of-the art
                   security systems (which are least obtrusive and most effective)
                   and install them shortly. The temple will be guarded round-the-
                   clock. Commandos have been posted to guard the gates.

                   2. The petitioners (Sri Marthanda Varma the sole trustee and the
                   Executive Officer of the temple) have expressed their views in the
                   affidavit dated 14.7.2011 filed by the Executive Officer:-

                   Ownership :

                   All articles, ornaments, valuables, precious stones, antiques
                   without exception found in the Kallaras belong to the Presiding
                   Deity of Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple and neither Mr.
                   Marthanda Varma nor his family members have any claim over
                   them. Mr. Marthanda Varma merely administers the
                   property/assets of the deity and the temple as the Trustee.

                   Storage/Exhibition :

                   The articles found in Kallara ‘A’ can be segregated into three
                   categories:

                   (i) Articles having historic/heritage/artistic value considered
                   "priceless", can be kept in the Kallara itself, and taken out
                   periodically for being exhibited on special occasions, within the
                   temple premises for the benefit of the devotees and general
                   public.

                   (ii) Even articles which have only some historic/ heritage/artistic
                   value, and cannot be considered to be ‘priceless’ shall also be kept
                   in the safe custody in the Kallara.

                   (iii)Articles     having       monetary    value      but     no
                   historic/heritage/artistic value, could be disposed of and the
                   proceeds used for purchasing immovable properties, for
                   renovation and maintenance of the temple and for education
                   including establishment of a ‘Veda Pathasala’ and a ‘Thanthirika
                   Peedom’ for imparting training and grooming temple priests.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           68
                   Inventory :

                   Videography and photography of the articles in Kallara ‘A’ may
                   be avoided, as the inventory has already been completed. But if it
                   is found that videography/photography is necessary for
                   completing the inventory, the same may be carried out strictly
                   under the supervision and the films/cartridges shall be deposited
                   in a sealed cover so that unauthorized copies are not made.

                   As the primary object of the inventory is to ascertain what is
                   available and not disposal or sale, there is no need to have a
                   valuation. However the services of a conservationist or expert in
                   antiques may be availed for categorizing the articles and
                   completing the inventory in a scientific manner.

                   Security arrangements :

                   While installing security systems, in particular CCTVs and other
                   electronic devices, care should be taken in regard to two aspects.
                   First is that the customs/traditions of the temple should be
                   respected and taken note of. Second is that worship by the
                   devotees should not be disturbed. The Police personnel on
                   security duty, when inside the temple, should be unobtrusive and
                   comply with the dress code of the temple.
                                              … … …

                   4. After considering the submissions made during arguments and
                   the suggestions in the affidavits, we find that action is required in
                   the following areas :

                   (a) A detailed inventory of the articles in Kallaras A and C to F
                   with videography/photography shall have to be completed under
                   the    supervision    of     an    Expert     Committee.     The
                   videographer/photographer employed for this purpose shall have
                   security clearance from the local Police authorities.

                   (b) The services of Experts/Conservationists shall have to be
                   availed so that handling the articles at the time of inventory or
                   disturbing the environment in which they were stored in the
                   Kallaras for centuries does not affect the articles.

                   (c) Adequate and proper arrangements will have to be made for
                   security. This would involve not only policing the premises but
                   also having security measures/systems as also provision of a
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           69
                   strong room/vaults/steel lining in the Kallaras with the assistance
                   of a security expert.

                   5. To achieve the aforesaid results, we hereby constitute the
                   following Expert Committee to advise regarding inventory,
                   conservation and security :

                   (1) Dr. C. V. Ananda Bose,                            : Co-ordinator
                       Director General of National Museum and
                       Vice-Chancellor,
                       National Museum Institute
                       New Delhi.

                   (2) Prof. Dr. M.B. Nair,                                  : Member
                       Head of Conservation Department,
                       National Museum Institute
                       New Delhi.

                   (3) Nominee of the Director, Archaeological          : Member
                       Survey of India (from its science/research wing).

                   (4) Nominee of the Governor of Reserve Bank of India :Member
                       who is an Expert from its security wing.

                   (5) The Executive Officer of the Temple                   :   Member


                   6. The said Expert Committee is entrusted with the following
                   responsibilities:

                   (a) To organize the inventory by videography/ photography of the
                   articles in Kallaras A, C to F, and supervise such inventory and
                   arrange for proper storage of the articles in the respective Kallaras
                   after completion of the inventory.

                   (b) To examine and categorise the articles into three groups: (i)
                   Articles/ornaments having historic/heritage/ artistic/antique
                   value. (ii) Articles that are required for regular use in the temple
                   for religious purpose. (iii) Articles and ornaments which cannot
                   be considered to be having any historic/heritage/artistic/antique
                   value, but having merely a monetary value.

                   (c) To draw up long term and short term measures for
                   preservation, conservation, maintenance of the articles/ antiques
                   in Kallaras of the Temple.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             70

                   (d) Prepare a scheme for providing security measures in the
                   temple premises and in the Kallaras.

                   (e) Examine whether any of the articles are worthy of exhibition
                   for the benefit of the devotees and if so examine the feasibility of
                   creation of a high security museum within the temple premises or
                   the adjoining museum.

                   (f) Examine and give an opinion whether it is necessary to open
                   Kallara ‘B’ at this stage.

                   7. In view of the constitution of the said Expert Committee,
                   there is no need to continue the large Committee of Observers. In
                   place of the seven member Observer Committee earlier
                   appointed, the following smaller Overseeing Committee is
                   appointed to supervise and guide the working of the Expert
                   Committee and to complete the inventory and continue as
                   Observers :

                   (i) Justice M.N. Krishnan.                                -Co-ordinator

                   (ii) Mr. Marthanda Varma (or his special nominee)            - Member
                   (iii) Secretary, Devaswom Department of               - Member
                         Government of Kerala (or his special nominee).”


      28.      The Expert Committee constituted by this Court made an interim report,

      and furnished some additional information, based on which following

      directions were passed by this Court in its Order dated 22.09.2011:-


                   “We have examined the interim report dated 17.8.2011 of the
                   Expert Committee and the additional information submitted on
                   12.9.2011. Having considered the said report and the submissions
                   of the parties, the following interim directions are issued:
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           71
                   SECURITY MEASURES

                   1.1) The Expert Committee has identified thirteen security issues
                   and suggested sixteen security measures to be put in place. A copy
                   thereof has already been made available to the State Government
                   and the Temple Administration. The state government has
                   submitted the Security Technical Committee Report putting forth
                   an Integrated and Multi-Layered Security System for the Temple,
                   for our perusal. In view of security concerns, we do not propose
                   to extract either the security issues raised or the security measures
                   suggested by the Expert Committee or the secured measures
                   proposed by the state government.

                   1.2) The state government has submitted that it has the expertise
                   and capability to provide the necessary security measures; and it
                   is ready and willing to provide the same at its cost. The state
                   government has assured that it would spare no effort or cost to
                   provide the best security cover and has stated that there is no need
                   to indent the service of any central security force like CRPF as
                   suggested by the Expert Committee, for strengthening the
                   security. Having examined the Security Technical Committee
                   Report furnished by the state government and its assurance to put
                   in place an Integrated Multi-layered Security System for the
                   Temple in a time-bound manner, we are satisfied that the state
                   government would be in a position to execute the security plan.
                   There is no need for the state government to requisition the
                   services of any central security agency.

                   1.3) The state government shall take note of the sixteen security
                   measures that have been suggested by the Expert Committee in
                   its Interim Report dated 17.8.2011 and promptly implement the
                   Integrated Multi-layered Security System explained and
                   suggested in its Security Technical Committee Report. In
                   implementing the security system, the state government will take
                   note of temple traditions, customs and practices, and
                   accommodate the views of the temple administration as far as
                   possible and feasible.

                   WORK PLAN

                   2.1) The Expert Committee has suggested ‘Digital Archiving of
                   Temple Antiques’ (for short ‘DATA’) to achieve the following :
                   (i) Recording of detailed information after examination and
                   assigning an Antique Identification Number/Code; (ii) to store the
                   information in a computerized Data Base; (iii) recording of a 3D
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          72
                   image of the object and link it to the data base. The Expert
                   Committee is permitted to implement the said ‘DATA’
                   procedure.

                   2.2) The Expert Committee has recommended appointment of 6
                   Kerala State Electronic Corporation (KELTRON), a state
                   government undertaking with technical expertise from Vikram
                   Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), an unit of Department of Space,
                   for implementing the work plan. Having regard to the security
                   concerns and approval of the said agency by the state government,
                   we accept the suggestion that the ‘DATA’ work should be
                   executed by the said government undertaking instead of inviting
                   tenders from private agencies.

                   2.3) KELTRON has estimated the cost of executing the work to
                   be Rs.3,16,35,000/- made up of Rs.1,65,35,000/- for hardware,
                   Rs.40,00,000/- for software, and Rs.1,11,00,000/- for services
                   and miscellaneous items. The cost appears to be very high and far
                   exceeds the figures shown in the Interim Report. The feasibility
                   of borrowing/hiring the equipment can be considered. The
                   software cost and servicing cost requires drastic reduction.
                   However, KELTRON being a state government undertaking and
                   VSSC, the technical expert being a unit of Department of Space,
                   the Expert Committee may proceed to entrust the work to
                   KELTRON after involving the state government in the process of
                   negotiations relating to cost and the schedule of payment. We do
                   not propose to approve the said price. As the state government has
                   to bear the expenditure involved, it will take the final decision on
                   the pricing after negotiations, in consultation with the Expert
                   Committee. The state government shall nominate a Nodal Officer
                   for this purpose, failing which the Secretary, Devaswom
                   Department shall be the Nodal Officer.”


      29.      On 23.08.2012, Mr. Gopal Subramanium, learned Senior Advocate was

      appointed Amicus Curiae to assist the Court. The learned Amicus Curiae in his

      report dated 01.11.2012 made suggestions with regard to conservation,

      renovation and restoration. During the course of his report, the learned Amicus

      Curiae made the following observations:
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          73
                   “29. In this context, it may be necessary to mention that the Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple is an integral part of the traditions
                   of the Royal family of the erstwhile State of Travancore and also
                   the people of Kerala (including the residents of the ancient city of
                   Thiruvananthapuram). It is interesting to note that Ashwathi
                   Thirunal Gouri Lakshmi Bayi (one of the members of the Royal
                   family), in her book Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple published
                   by the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, interestingly refers to the Prakrit
                   version and the final Sanskrit version of Sree Anandapuram from
                   Syanandoorapura. The Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple is
                   connected to twenty four holy teerthams and is also linked with
                   certain other temples, many of which are in the State of Tamil
                   Nadu. It may be noted that even today, Mathilakom records or
                   the palm leaves scrolls which recorded the ancient history of the
                   Temple and that of the erstwhile State of Travancore are available
                   in the Temple premises and in the Kerala State Archives.

                   30. It must also be noted that the idol of Lord Padmanabha is
                   made using katu sharkara yogam (a complex mixture of 8 natural
                   ingredients) in which 12008 Salagramas were filled in. This idol
                   made using katu sharkara yogam was consecrated in the year
                   1739 under the aegis of the erstwhile ruler of Travancore, Veera
                   Marthanda Verma (1706-1758). Salagrama is not a mere stone
                   but a stone of longstanding tradition and spiritual potency in
                   which it is believed that Hari or Lord Vishnu resides (hence, yatha
                   salagrame hari). Thus, Eashwara or god manifests Himself in
                   saguna forms in various ways – in the Salagrama as Vishnu, in
                   the lingam as Shiva and in the chakra as Devi (Mother Goddess).
                   Usually, when 12 salagrama shilas are worshipped, it equals the
                   potency of a mahakshetram or a great temple. Therefore, the
                   sanctity of Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple is a thousand fold.

                                              …     …     …

                   34. At this juncture, it would be appropriate to mention that the
                   Travancore Royal family is also called the Venadu Raja Vamsha
                   which is the off-shoot of Chera roya lineage and the Ayi royal
                   dynasty, and has always regarded Lord Padmanabha Swamy as
                   their tutelory Deity and this is confirmed by many historical
                   records where Lord Padmanabha is addressed as
                   ‘yadavendrakuladaivatam’       or    the    family      Deity    of
                   yadavakshatriyas (the present Travancore royalty); thereby
                   confirming that Sree Padmanabha Swamy is the ‘kuladaivta’ of
                   the entire family. It may be noted that devotees other than royalty
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         74
                   have worshipped Lord Padmanabha Swamy as their ‘ishta daivta’
                   or God of one’s personal choice.

                   35. It was in 1731 A.D. that the first King of the erstwhile
                   Travancore Royal family, Sree Veera Marthnda Varma, was
                   anointed. He was succeeded by Rama Varma (1758-1798).
                   Moreover, the Royal family consisted of deeply devoted members
                   who were dedicated to the Temple and who believed that their
                   lives centred around Sree Padmanabha Swamy. In 1750 A.D., the
                   entire State of Travancore was gifted to this Deity by a Deed and
                   the Rulers became servants of the Lord, calling themselves as
                   Padmanabhadasa. It may also be noted that many of the
                   Maharajas were great composers of shlokas as well as music. In
                   fact, many of the Rulers were protectors of the Vedas and the
                   vedic tradition. Further, the Temple was governed by a council
                   of trustees called Ettara Yogam headed by the King.

                   36. One of the greatest Kings of the Royal family was Sri Swathi
                   Thirunal Maharaja Rama Varma (1813-1846) who was a great
                   patron of the arts, literature, music and modern science. He was
                   an extraordinary King who presented an incorruptible system of
                   governance, framed the first code of regulations of Travancore,
                   advanced English education, contributed to a collection of rare
                   manuscripts and undertook a large number of social welfare
                   measures. In fact, Sri Swathi Thirnal is regarded as one of the
                   four great vidwans of Carnatic music – they being Muthuswamy
                   Dikshitar, Thyagaraja, Shyamasastry and Swati Thirunal. The
                   Kings including Sri Swathi Thirunal donated their personal
                   wealth to the Temple and, as recorded by Dr. Ventkata
                   Subramanya Iyer in his brilliant book ‘Swathi Thirunal and his
                   music’, during his eventful life, once when one of his courtesans
                   presented a varnam in his honour, the King directed that it should
                   not be used because only Lord Padmanabha Swamy must be
                   lauded with music.

                                               …    …     …

                   38. In the submission of the Amicus Curiae, this Temple is one
                   of the most ancient temples of Maha Vishnu and is priceless. The
                   Amicus Curiae however noticed that urgent measures are
                   required for the protection, preservation as well as the proper and
                   effective management of the Temple. Thus, it may be added that
                   the sprit underlying the judgment of the Kerala High Court as well
                   as the various interim orders passed by this Hon’ble Court is to
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           75
                   preserve, protect and manage the Temple along with inventorying
                   all the treasures which are contained in the Temple.

                   39. The Amicus Curiae noted that the various Kallaras or vaults
                   are an integral part of the Temple structure itself. In order to show
                   the same, the Amicus Curiae is annexing a copy of a plan which
                   indicates where Sree Padmanabha Swamy in the Sreekovil
                   (sanctum) is residing and there is a mandapam outside and by the
                   side of Narasimha Murthy is Kallara ‘A’ adjoined by Kallara ‘B’.
                   While Kallaras ‘C’ and ‘D’ are on the other side of the Sreekovil.
                   Kallaras ‘E’ and ‘F’ are close to the sanctum. The said map / plan
                   is annexed to this report and marked as Annexure B.

                   40. The treasures which are contained in these Kallaras are the
                   continued offerings of the Royal family including the offerings of
                   other devotees. It may also be noted that the priceless jewels are
                   intended for alankara of the Lord, gold ornaments, gold utensils
                   and many priceless treasures are also to be found in these
                   Kallaras, including priceless gems and coins. Thus, there can
                   hardly be any doubt that all the treasures of the Temple belong to
                   the Temple Deity, i.e. to Sree Padmanabha Swamy and nobody
                   can claim otherwise (in fact, in the temples of South India, it is
                   customary for people to offer various ornaments of gold and silver
                   in temples which are then kept separately in those temples). No
                   person must be allowed to take the riches of the Temple outside
                   for any extraneous purpose. The Amicus Curiae is of the opinion
                   that considering the stand of the State of Kerala as reflected in its
                   written statement filed in O.S. No.625 of 2007 before the Civil
                   Court in Thiruvananthapuram and the interaction which the
                   Amicus Curiae had with the Chief Minister, it is clear that the
                   State would not do anything by which any of the treasures of the
                   Temple are utilised for any extraneous purpose or for any prupose
                   unconnected with the Deity/Temple.”



      30.      In its Order dated 13.02.2013, this Court observed:-

                   “2. Section 20 of the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious
                   Institutions Act, 1950 provides that there shall be a committee to
                   advise the Ruler of Travancore in the discharge of his functions.
                   The Committee shall be known as “Sree Padmanabhaswamy
                   Temple Committee” and composed of three Hindu members
                   nominated by the Ruler of Travancore. The tenure of the members
                   of the Committee may be determined by the Ruler.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       76

                   3. We are informed by Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior
                   counsel, that the Committee on January 8, 2013 resolved that the
                   Trustee may appoint a nominee of his choice to report the conduct
                   of administration and to act according to the directions by the
                   Trustee from time to time.

                   4. Pursuant to the above resolution, we are further informed that
                   the Ruler (trustee) has nominated Mr. Adithya Varma as his
                   honorary nominee to report on the conduct of administration of
                   Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple and to act according to the
                   directions issued from time to time.

                   5. Mr. K.K. Venugopal also informed us that within 10 days from
                   today, the Executive Officer shall be appointed along with one
                   Assistant Executive Officer and as suggested by Mr. Gopal
                   Subramanium, learned Amicus Curiae, Mr. Gautam
                   Padmanabhan shall be appointed as Assistant Executive Officer.

                   6. We accept the above statements of Mr. K.K. Venugopal.”


               By its Order dated 11.12.2013, this Court appointed a Conservation and

      Restoration Committee to coordinate with Sri Kanippayyoor Sankaran

      Namboothiripadu and Thantri of the Temple to supervise the conservation,

      restoration and renovation work.


               After the death of the original appellant No.1 – Uthradam Thirunal

      Marthanda Varma, his successor Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma was

      impleaded in his place vide Order dated 09.04.2014.


      31.      On 15.04.2014, a further Report was filed by the learned Amicus Curiae

      along with his recommendations touching upon various issues and topics
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        77
      including General Administration, Conservation of Structures within the

      Temple, Security Arrangements, Special Audit of the Temple. He suggested

      that Special Audit of the Temple be conducted for the last 25 years. He also

      made recommendations with regard to the security of Temple Property,

      contents of Kallaras.


      32.      An Administrative Committee came to be constituted as reflected in the

      Order dated 24.04.2014. The Order also directed special audit of the Temple

      to be conducted. The Order stated:-

                   “Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the petitioners
                   in SLP (C) Nos. 11295 of 2011 and 12361 of 2011 submits that
                   the Executive Officer and Administrative Officer of the Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple (for short "Temple") have
                   voluntarily desired to go on leave for four months.

                   2. We accept his statement.

                   3. Mr. K.N. Satheesh, IAS, Director, Higher Secondary
                   Education, Government of Kerala is, for the time being, appointed
                   as the Executive Officer of the Temple until further orders.

                   4. By way of interim measure, an Administrative Committee to
                   discharge day-to-day functions relating to the Temple is
                   constituted. The Administrative Committee shall comprise of:

                   (i) District Judge, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, if he is Hindu and
                   if he does not happen to be Hindu, then senior most Additional
                   District Judge of that District. The District Judge or Additional
                   District Judge, as the case may be, shall be the Chairman of the
                   Administrative Committee.

                   (ii) Tantri S/Shri Satish Namboodiri, Saji Namboodiri, Kuttan
                   Namboodiri.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          78
                   (iii) Chief Nambi of the Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple.

                   (iv) Two members to be co-opted by the District Judge, one of
                   whom shall be co- opted in consultation with the Government of
                   Kerala.

                   5. The keys of all the kallaras except kallaras "E" and "F" shall be
                   handed over to the Chairman of the Administrative Committee
                   forthwith.

                   6. The keys of the two Mudalpadi rooms (designated in the Report
                   as Kallaras ’G’ and ’H’) shall also be handed over to the
                   Chairman of the Administrative Committee forthwith.

                   7. The Administrative Committee shall immediately address the
                   following issues:

                         (a) Protection of Kannikaipura and its surveillance by
                         installing CCTV cameras and other related issues;

                         (b) The collection of Kanikkai shall be accounted at least
                         once a week, preferably every Saturday in the presence of
                         the Chairman of the Administrative Committee;

                         (c) Cleaning of the passage above the Kallaras within the
                         Sreekovil;

                         (d) Cleaning of Temple tanks (Mitranandapuram and
                         Padmateertham) in a time bound manner by a credible
                         agency;

                         (e) Improvement in living conditions of police personnels
                         guarding the Temple;

                         (f) Any other issue which may be brought to the knowledge
                         of the Chairman, Administrative Committee by the learned
                         Amicus Curiae or State Government or Trustee.

                   8. A special audit of the Temple and its properties shall be
                   conducted as early as may be possible, preferably by Shri Vinod
                   Rai, former Comptroller and Auditor General of India. He will be
                   at liberty to take services/assistance of any other person/persons
                   in completion of this task.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        79
                   9. Until further orders, no property of the Temple shall be
                   alienated or transferred or disposed of in any manner
                   whatsoever.”


      33.      On 06.11.2014, an affidavit was filed by the Chief Secretary of the State

      submitting:-

                   “6. It is submitted that Shree Padmanabaswamy Temple
                   (“Temple”), was initially part of the erstwhile Princely State of
                   Travancore and successive Rulers in the erstwhile Princely State
                   of Travancore, considered Lord Padmanabha as their deity. On
                   16.04.1960, the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious Institutions
                   Act, 1950, was enacted on the basis of Article 8 of the Covenant
                   dated 01.07.1949 entered into between the Rulers of Travancore
                   and Cochin for the formation of the United State of Travancore
                   and Cochin.
                                             … … …

                   8. It is thus submitted that, the administration of the Temple,
                   Sree Pandaravaka properties, all other properties and funds of the
                   Temple were vested in Trust with the Ruler of Travancore.

                   9. It is submitted that Sri Chithira Thirunal Maharaja, was the
                   last Ruler and after his demise on 19.07.1991, the administration
                   of the Temple was assumed by his brother, the late Sri Marthanda
                   Varma, who was the Original Petitioner before this Hon’ble
                   Court, however now deceased.
                                              … … …

                   12. Further, it was also submitted before the Sub-Court by the
                   Government that there are so many Temples in the State, for
                   instance Attukal Bhagavathi Temple in Trivandrum, Chakkulathu
                   Kavu in Alappuzha District etc. which are managed well by
                   private or family trusts. Therefore, the Government endorsed and
                   supported the stand of the Defendant therein, i.e. the erstwhile
                   royal Family represented by Sree Marthanda Varma, that the
                   administration of the Temple shall continue to be conducted by
                   the erstwhile royal Family.
                                              … … …
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          80
                   18. It is submitted in the affidavit dated 23.04.2014, Sree Mulam
                   Thirunal has inter alia informed this Hon’ble Court in paragraph
                   8 of the said affidavit as follows:-

                         “It is only when Valiya Thampuram Sri Utharadom
                         Thirunal Marthanda Varma decided to file the Special
                         Leave Petition against the present impugned Judgment
                         of the High Court, that he was strongly advised to give
                         up his stand that the temple is a private temple which
                         vested in the family, and, on the other hand, to take the
                         stand that the temple is a public temple…”

                                              …     …     …

                   20. It is submitted that with the coming into force of the
                   Instrument of Accession referred to above, as held by the Hon’ble
                   High Court in the impugned judgment, the term “Ruler” as
                   appearing in Section 18 in the Travancore-Cochin Hindu
                   Religious Institutions Act and Article 290-A of the Constitution
                   of India is not a heritable right to be continued ad infinitum. With
                   the passing away of the last Ruler Sree Chithirathirunal
                   Balaramavarma, Ruler and Rulership are no more valid and
                   legally sustainable.

                   21. However, it is categorically submitted that at no point of time
                   has the Government claimed the wealth to be Government
                   property, nor do they intend to lay claim ownership of the said
                   property. On the other hand, the Government states that the
                   wealth is exclusively the temple property and it is inalienable
                   except for the benefit of the temple and the devotees of the
                   temple.
                                            … … …

                   24. The answering respondent is also prepared to examine the
                   feasibility of bringing forward legislation preferably on the lines
                   of the Guruvayur Devaswom Act, 1978 for the said purpose. As
                   per the said Act, there is a nine member Committee called the
                   Guruvayur Devaswom Managing Committee of which, three are
                   permanent members. The three permanent members include the
                   Zamorin Raja of Calicut, The Karanavan of Mallissery Illam
                   (head of the Mallissery family) and the Thanthri. Six non-
                   permanent members are nominated by the Hindus among the
                   Council of Ministers, which includes a representative of the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          81
                   employees of the Devaswom and a person belonging to the
                   scheduled caste. The Government is ready to carry out the
                   necessary study in this regard.

                   25. It is submitted that if the Guruvayur model is replicated in
                   the case of Sree Padmanabha Swami Temple, then the erstwhile
                   royal family of Travancore can be given representation in the
                   Managing Committee by reserving one slot on a permanent basis
                   and the Thanthri could be the other permanent Member.”


      34.      The Order dated 05.05.2015 passed by this Court noted the submission

      of the learned Amicus Curiae that an audit be conducted with regard to the

      account of Padmanabhaswamy Temple Trust and its properties. It also noted

      the submission of appellants that a special audit for the period had already been

      conducted, but he would not have any objection in cooperating with Mr. Rai.

      The Order, therefore, directed:-


                   “In the circumstances, therefore, we direct that a copy of the audit
                   report filed on behalf of the Padmanabhan Swamy Trust in this
                   court for the period 01.04.2008 shall be forwarded to Mr. Rai for
                   his perusal and evaluation. We further direct that in case Mr. Rai
                   upon consideration of the audit already conducted is of the
                   opinion that a fresh/special audit needs to be conducted for the
                   period 01.04.2008 onwards he shall be free to undertake that
                   exercise in which case the Trust shall make available all such
                   information and record as may be necessary for completion of that
                   exercise. Mr. Rai will also do well to raise any query that may be
                   relevant for completion of the audit to enable the trust to answer
                   them. We extend the time for completion of the audit till
                   31.12.2015.

                   We permit the State Government to approach the Expert
                   Committee for scaling down the staff deployed for
                   inventorisation and archiving of antiques and artifacts by
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       82
                   KELTRON and Expert Committee who may upon consideration
                   of any such request issue appropriate orders in that regard.

                   Mr. Rai has in terms of communication dated 1.04.2015 raised a
                   demand for a sum of Rs. 45,00,000/- representing the total fee
                   including expenses etc. for the period up to December, 2015.
                   There is no objection by any one appearing for the parties to the
                   release of the said amount in favour of Mr. Rai. We accordingly
                   direct the Administrative Committee to release the amount billed
                   by Mr. Rai.”


      35.      The Order dated 09.10.2015 noted the submissions with regard to

      customary form of awakening Lord Padmanabhaswamy in the morning, and

      left the issue to be decided by the religious head of the Temple as under:-

                 “… …Having heard learned senior counsel for the parties on this
                 aspect of the matter, we are of the opinion that the issue could be
                 more appropriately left to be examined and resolved by the
                 religious head of the temple. It is common ground that
                 Tharananellur Sri Parameswaran Namboodiripad, is the Chief
                 Thanthri of the temple. In our opinion, and as fairly conceded by
                 learned senior counsel appearing for the parties including Mr.
                 Subramanium, learned amicus curiae, all matters concerning
                 permissible rituals, customary practices and pujas to be performed
                 including the mode of awakening the Lord in the morning ought to
                 be left to be determined by the Chief Priest (Thanthri)
                 Tharananellur Sri Parameswaran Namboodiripad in his capacity as
                 the Chief Thanthri of the temple. We accordingly do so. We make
                 it clear that Mr. Subramanium has categorically stated that he had
                 never mandated any change in the customary practices in the
                 temple and that it is a matter that can indeed be left to the Chief
                 Priest (Thanthri) Tharananellur Sri Parameswaran Namboodiripad,
                 mentioned above to determine. It follows that the question whether
                 verses "Venkatesha Suprabhatam" should or should not be recited
                 in the morning for awakening the Lord is a matter left to be
                 determined by the Chief Priest (Thanthri) Tharananellur Sri
                 Parameswaran Namboodiripad. … …”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          83
      36.      In March 2016, Report about Special Audit of Sree Padmanabhaswamy

      Temple, its properties and Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple Trust was filed

      by Mr. Vinod Rai, running into two volumes along with “Major Audit-

      Observations and Recommendations”.


               The Administrative Committee appointed by this Court resolved on

      13.06.2017 as under:-


                   “the Committee is in the darkness on the financial position
                   of the temple. Quarterly budget proposals should be
                   prepared and communicated to the Committee. Similarly,
                   monthly accounts statement should be placed before the
                   Committee before 10th of every succeeding month. The
                   matter will be communicated to the Executive Officer.”

                The resolution was communicated to the Executive Officer.


        37.     The Order dated 04.07.2017 passed by this Court noted that by

        consensus Mr. V. Ratheesan, IAS, was nominated as Executive Officer and

        he assumed charge on 18.06.2017. Said Order recorded the earlier directions

        issued on 09.05.2017 with regard to the essential repairs and while

        constituting Conservation Committee and Selection Committee, following

        directions were issued:-

                   “5. Having given our thoughtful consideration to the rival
                   contentions advanced by the learned counsel, we are of the view
                   that the security arrangements presently in place should be
                   allowed to continue with the rider that the entire responsibility of
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           84
                   securing the properties and the assets of the temple will remain
                   with the Superintendent of Police, who is the person in-charge of
                   the responsibility.

                   6. Mr. Gopal Subramanium, learned amicus curiae further pointed
                   out that the working relationship between the Administrative
                   Committee and the Executive Officer needs to be clearly defined.

                   7. During the course of hearing, learned counsel for the rival
                   parties were agreeable that this Court clarifies, that the
                   Administrative Committee shall be in-charge of taking policy
                   decisions as well as in regard to the manner of functioning of the
                   temple, and that, the directions issued by the Executive
                   Committee shall be implemented by the Executive Officer. It was
                   also submitted that the Executive Officer be made Member
                   Secretary of the Administrative Committee - to whom he should
                   be answerable. We order accordingly. We also hereby further
                   direct, that the Executive Officer as Member Secretary, shall
                   discharge his duties wholetime. In this behalf, we would make a
                   request to the State of Kerala to approve the aforesaid
                   arrangement within two weeks from today.

                   8. It was also submitted by the learned amicus curiae, that even
                   though there is a process in vogue whereby accounts of the temple
                   and the trust are maintained, yet they are not subjected to any
                   supervision and control. It was pointed out, that the appointment
                   of a financial controller would lend credibility to the process of
                   incurring expenses and maintenance of accounts. On examining
                   the instant issue with the concurrence of learned counsel
                   representing the rival parties, we request the State of Kerala to
                   nominate a panel of three officers from the Indian Audit and
                   Accounts Service, to overlook the audit and accounts of the
                   temple, and to submit quarterly reports to the Administrative
                   Committee, for implementation of such suggestions as may be
                   made in the report. We also hereby direct the same officer,
                   nominated by the State Government as has been approved by the
                   Administrative Committee, to audit the accounts of Shri
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple Trust and to submit similar reports
                   to the Administrative Committee. We, therefore, hereby request
                   the State of Kerala to submit its panel, for the consideration of the
                   Administrative Committee, within four weeks.

                   9. The next contention of Mr.Gopal Subramanium, Senior
                   Advocate and learned amicus curiae was, that an immediate
                   inspection of the Moolabimbams needs to be carried out, so that
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          85
                   effective repairs can be made to the deity before the onset of
                   Dakshinayana (which commences from 15/16.07.2017). In this
                   behalf, we are aware of the order passed by us on 09.05.2017
                   wherein we had recorded as under:

                       “4. A Committee of experts comprising Vezhapparambu
                       Namboodripad, Satheesh Ezhumtholi and Cheruvally
                       would undertake a complete inspection of the
                       Moolabimbams and advise a suitable course of action.
                       This should be done in conjunction with Kanipayyoor
                       Shri Krishnan Namboodripad. The Kadusarkara repairs
                       and repairs to the Moolavigrahas, referred to in the
                       orders of this Court dated 20.03.2017 and 18.04.2017,
                       must be undertaken conjointly by the said persons, in
                       consultation with the Tantris, wherever necessary. They
                       shall mutually agree on a Chairman, who may be made
                       responsible for the work undertaken.

                       5. In the background of the above, the amicus curiae
                       submitted, that the inspection and repairs may be
                       permitted to be undertaken conjointly by the said
                       persons. They will be at liberty to appoint any
                       artisan/expert, who may have knowledge of Kadusarkara
                       for the said purpose. The same should be undertaken at
                       the earliest, without compromising with any customs
                       and rituals at the Temple. We accept the submissions
                       recorded above, and order accordingly.”

                   10. Since a request to carry out repairs of the deity was personally
                   made by this Court, we would expect the experts to carry out the
                   responsibilities vested in them, so that the work commences
                   before the onset of Dakshinayana. If for some reason, one or the
                   other expert is not in a position to undertake the obligations, the
                   Administrative Committee shall ensure that the same shall be
                   carried out by the remaining experts. It remains the earnest desire
                   of this Court, that the repairs of the deity are commenced
                   expeditiously, as stated above, and are concluded at the earliest.
                   The suggestions of the experts indicating the manner of carrying
                   out the repairs will be supported financially by the Administrative
                   Committee. Learned counsel for the rival parties, shall convey to
                   the experts, the above desire expressed by this Court.

                   11. Learned counsel for the rival parties are ad-idem that the
                   responsibility vested with the Overseeing Committee has been
                   discharged, and as such, the Committee may be dissolved. We
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         86
                   order accordingly. It was however pointed out, that some of the
                   responsibilities of the Overseeing Committee were delegated to
                   the Expert Committee. The Expert Committee has also
                   substantially completed its task. However, an inventory of the
                   Kallara B is yet to be prepared, which shall be prepared only after
                   express direction of this Court.

                   12. Finally, at the joint request of learned counsel for the rival
                   parties, the Conservation Committee is re-constituted as under:

                         1. Dr.Velayudhan Nair
                         2. Mr.S.Ramamurthy (Archaeologist)
                         3. Mr.Sharat Sunder R
                         4. Mr.V.Ratheesan

                   13. In our motion bench order dated 09.05.2017, we had
                   constituted a Selection Committee for the Sreekovil and other
                   allied works by recording as under:

                         “6. It was further submitted, that the Selection
                         Committee, for the Sreekovil and other allied works,
                         which has been mutually agreed, should consist of :

                               a. Shri Kanipayyoor Shri Krishnan
                               Namboodripad;
                               b. Dr. M. Velayuthan Nair
                               c. Shri S. Ramamurthy (Archaeologist)
                               d. Shri Sharath Sunder R., (Suggested by Shri
                               KK Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel).

                         The said committee be permitted to choose the most
                         suitable persons, at the best competitive prices and
                         subject to ratification by the Administrative
                         Committee, award the work. Allowed as prayed.”

                   14. It was submitted, that the aforesaid Selection Committee has
                   not finalised the most suitable persons for carrying out the
                   Sreekovil, and other allied works. In order to expedite the
                   finalisation of choosing the most suitable persons, we consider it
                   just and appropriate to request and appoint Hon'ble Mr.Justice
                   K.S.P.Radhakrishnan, a retired Judge of this Court, as the
                   Chairman of the Selection Committee, contemplated in paragraph
                   6 of the motion bench order dated 09.05.2017 (extracted above).
                   For the responsibility vested in him, Hon'ble Mr.Justice
                   K.S.P.Radhakrishnan (Retd.) shall be at liberty to fix his own
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           87
                   honorarium and terms and conditions, which shall be honoured
                   by the temple.”


      38.      In these appeals we heard Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned Senior

      Advocate for the appellant No.1 and Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned Senior

      Advocate for the appellant No.2; Mr. M.K.S. Menon and Mr. J. Sai Deepak,

      learned Advocates for the Intervenors supporting the appellants; Mr. Jaideep

      Gupta, learned Senior Advocate for the State and Mr. P.B. Suresh, learned

      Advocate for respondents 3, 4 and 6 in appeal arising out of Special Leave

      Petition (Civil) No.12361 of 2011.


      39.      Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned Senior Advocate submitted:-

                   “A. The Covenant and the Act are not the source of the Trust but
                   only recognize pre-existing rights of the Ruler to manage the
                   Temple and regulate that right to the limited extent of providing
                   that the Ruler as Trustee shall control and supervise the
                   administration of the Temple through an Executive Officer and
                   an Advisory Committee appointed/selected by him.

                   B. Factually, there is no dispute that it is the Rulers of Travancore
                   who founded and endowed the Temple and thereafter have
                   managed it without interruption for several centuries.”


               Reliance was placed on the expressions in Article VIII(b) of the

      Covenant and Section 18(2) of TC Act and other material including excerpts

      from a book titled “Travancore” by Emily Gilchrist Hatch15 :-

      15 Published by Oxford University Press, 1939
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          88
                   “C. The only requirement for validly creating a Hindu religious
                   endowment in favour of an idol or temple is that the settlor must
                   clearly and unambiguously express his intention in that behalf.

                   D. The Trustee’s relationship with the Temple is in the nature of
                   a shebaitship which is also a “trust” in its broad and general sense
                   as signifying a fiduciary relation under which a person having
                   control over a property is bound to use that property for specified
                   objects.”

                It was submitted that the appellant No.1 was not making any claim to

      the ownership of the Temple but was only seeking his right to manage the

      Temple:-

                   “E. Shebaitship devolves upon the heirs of the founder absent
                   any contrary usage or custom.

                   F. In the present case, the custom and usage by which the
                   trusteeship of the Temple devolves is the marumakkathayam
                   law.”

               And lastly it was submitted :-

                   “G. The definition of ‘Ruler’ in Article 366 (22) is only for
                   purposes of Constitution and not for any other statute.

                   H. The administration of temples by the erstwhile Maharaja of
                   Travancore was only as a trustee and not by virtue of regal or
                   sovereign power.”



      40.       Mr. Arvind P. Datar, learned Senior Advocate submitted that the

      judgment under appeal had gone way beyond the pleadings and dealt with

      issues having far reaching consequences in the absence of any pleadings. He

      stressed upon the expression “present Ruler” appearing in Article IV of the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         89
      Covenant as against the term “Ruler” occurring at other places in the Covenant

      and submitted that the term “Ruler” must mean the Ruler who succeeded to the

      gaddi as per custom and usage. He further submitted:-

                   “Article 362 only required the legislature to take note of the
                   covenants, agreements and other documents, which were signed
                   with the Rulers while enacting laws. Accordingly, provisions
                   relating to exemption from taxation, preservation of method of
                   succession etc. were made to the Income Tax Act, 1922, Income
                   Tax Act, 1961, Wealth Tax Act, 1957 etc. Significantly, section
                   5(ii) of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 also preserved the Rules
                   of Succession for Rulers and specifically stated that the
                   provisions of this Act would not apply to the States which were
                   covered by the covenants or agreement with the Rulers. Other
                   examples are provisions in the CPC and Cr.P.C. granting certain
                   exemption to Rulers…….
                                            … … …

                   It is significant that despite the abolition of the Privy Purses by
                   the Constitution (26th Amendment) Act, 1971, several of these
                   exemptions have continued till date. If the concept of Rulers had
                   been totally abolished, then there would not have been exemption
                   from income, property tax, wealth tax etc. to all the 555 Rulers
                   who signed the covenants or agreements. Such a condition is
                   wholly untenable. [See The Rulers of Indian States (Abolition of
                   Privileges) Act, 1972, which continued several benefits to the
                   “Rulers”.]”

               He then relied upon the provisions of Article 363 of the Constitution to

      submit:-

                   “Therefore, there is a bar under Article 363 to entertain the
                   dispute. This has not been discussed by the High Court. These
                   covenants were signed by the Secretary to the Government of
                   India and indicated that the covenants are in the nature of an Act
                   of a State and the municipal court could not have jurisdiction over
                   any disputes arising out of its terms.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        90
                   In Sawai Tej Singhji of Alwar v. Union of India16, the bar of
                   Article 363 was held to apply even to an eviction suit of certain
                   buildings referred to in a letter written in pursuance of the
                   Rajasthan covenant. The suit was filed by the Maharaja. By the
                   same analogy, the writ petition on the question of Rulership
                   would directly be covered by the bar under Article 363.”


      41.       Mr. M.K.S. Menon, learned Advocate appearing for some of the

      members of the royal family of Travancore as intervenors submitted that the

      Constitution, as amended by the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act,

      1971 extinguished the rights, liabilities and obligations pertaining to the Privy

      Purses alone, and would not impact the mode of succession to the office of a

      trustee; and that the expression “Ruler of Travancore” in Section 18 of the TC

      Act was not to limit the trusteeship to the “Last Ruler of Travancore”.


      42.       Mr. J. Sai Deepak, learned Advocate appearing for Intervenors

      including Thantri of the Temple who is stated to be the final authority on the

      religious practices and traditions of the Temple and “People for Dharma” who

      had intervened and assisted this Court in the Sabrimala case relied upon

      documents such as “Kerala Mahatmyam”, Book of Princess Gouri Lakshmi

      Bayi2, Book titled “History of Travancore from the Earliest Times”17 and the




      16 (1979) 1 SCC 512
      17   Authored by P. Shungoonny Menon, Dewan Peishcar of Travancore and published in 1878
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         91
      “Travancore State Manual”18 to stress the special relationship of the Rulers of

      Travancore as “Padmanabhadasas” with Sri Padmanabhaswamy. He submitted

      that the ruling family traces its lineage to Maharaja Aditya on whom Bhagwan

      Parshurama is believed to have bestowed the duty to take care of the Temple

      and that the role played by the royal family as descendants of Maharaja Aditya

      and as “Padmanabhadasas” being essential and integral to the very founding

      and identity of the Temple, would be fully protected by Articles 25(1) and 26(b)

      of the Constitution. He further submitted that “Parashurama Padhati” being

      practised by a handful of temples in the World including the Temple, said

      Padhati having a distinct identity of its own, and the people being integrally

      connected to the Temple would be entitled to protection under Article 29(1) of

      the Constitution. In his submission, Article VIII of the Covenant is a stand-

      alone recognition of the relationship between the Ruler of Travancore and the

      Temple; that said Article is neither part of the Privy Purse arrangement under

      Article XIV nor part of the personal rights, privileges, dignities and titles of the

      Ruler as referred to in Article XVII of the Covenant; and therefore any

      development or operation of law affecting other provisions of the Covenant

      would not affect Article VIII of the Covenant. It was further submitted that the


      18 Authored by V. Nagam Aiya, Dewan Peishcar of Travancore and published in 1906
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    92
      expression “arising out of” in Article 363 of the Constitution being of the widest

      amplitude, disputes having any connection with the Covenant would be beyond

      the scope of judicial review by virtue of Article 363(1) of the Constitution. In

      support of the submission, reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in

      Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. vs. General Electric Company and Ors.19


      43.       In response, Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned Senior Advocate for the State

      submitted that two sets of issues arise for consideration:

               A)       The true and correct definition of the word “Ruler” in Section

      18(2) of TC Act.

               B)       Allegations of mismanagement of the Temple.

                Since the reports of the learned Amicus Curiae and of Mr. Vinod Rai

      were not dealt with by the learned counsel for the appellants in their opening

      submissions, Mr. Gupta deferred submissions regarding the second issue, till

      the appellants were heard on the said Reports. As regards the first issue, he

      submitted:-




      19 AIR (1985) SC 1156 : (1984) 4 SCC 679
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     93
               i)       The expression “Ruler” was repeatedly used in the Covenant in

      the context of head of the State and the expression “Ruler” in Article VIII(b)

      must have the same meaning.

               ii)      The expression “Ruler” in Section 18 of the TC Act must be

      given the same meaning as the one contained in Article 366(22) of the

      Constitution and not as referring to senior members of successive generations

      of the royal family of Travancore.

               iii)     The material on record including that concerning dedication of

      the State to the deity by the then Ruler did not satisfy the elements necessary to

      constitute an endowment, which would require the appropriation of specific

      property for a specific religious or charitable purpose.


              For this proposition, reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court

      in Profulla Chorone Requitte v. Satya Chorone Requitte20 and in Angurbala

      Mullick vs. Debabrata Mullick21.


               iv)      As the family of the appellant No.1 did not claim any proprietary

      right even of a limited nature, there could not have been any shebaitship in



      20 (1979) 3 SCC 409
      21 AIR 1951 SC 293 : (1951) SCR 1125
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    94
      favour of said family at any point of time and at best it would amount to

      hereditary trusteeship.

               v)       Whatever be the nature of relationship between the Ruler of

      Travancore and the Temple, right from inception, the office devolved upon the

      Ruler in his capacity as a Ruler and not as a private individual being the senior

      member of the ruling family of Travancore.

               vi)      The relationship underwent a change after the enactment of the

      TC Act; it became a statutory office and ceased to be in the nature of private

      shebaitship or hereditary trusteeship of any kind.

               vii)     In any case, such relationship was with the Ruler of Travancore

      as Ruler and with the abolition of the concept of Ruler by the Constitution

      (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, it ceased to have any effect.

               viii) The bar under Article 363 of the Constitution would not get

      attracted in the instant case.

               With regard to the submissions advanced by the learned counsel

      appearing for the Intervenors, it was submitted that in the absence of a claim

      by a properly constituted Religious Denomination, there would be no question

      of adjudicating or giving a finding regarding violation of any rights under

      Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution. In his submission, there would be no
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            95
      occasion to enter into the question whether or not the Temple is of a

      Denominational character; and in any case the relationship between the Ruler

      of Travancore and the Temple cannot be said to be an essential or integral part

      of the Hindu religion in general.


      44.      Mr. Gupta, leaned Senior Advocate also submitted a chart giving details

      about the expenditure incurred by the State in connection with the Temple.

      Leaving out the annual contribution that the State is required to extend, the

      Chart shows expenditure incurred in the sum of Rs.11,70,11,000/- for the

      period 2012-2019 as under:-

               Year Govt. Order No.                  Item                              Amount
               2012 2. G.O. (Rt)                     Fund to Digital Archiving of     2.5 crores
                    No.240/2012/RD                   Antiques and artifacts-Keltron
                    Dated 12.01.2012

                       3. G.O. (Rt)                  Fund to Expert Committee Sree 50 lakhs
                       No.1859/2012/RD               Padanabha Swamy Temple
                       Dated 29.03.2012

                    4. G.O. (Rt)                     Fund for Strengthening Kallara-A 54 lakhs
                    No.6668/2012/RD                  at Sree Padmanabha Swamy
                    Dated 22.11.2012                 Temple – Expert Committee
               2013 2. G.O. (Rt)                     Visit of Prof. Babu, Delhi 30
                    No.4426/2013/RD                  University to Padmatheertham thousand
                    Dated 02.08.2013                 pond

                    3. G.O. (Rt)                     Additional Fund to Digital 86.39
                    No.6542/2013/RD                  Archiving of Antiques and lakhs
                    Dated 09.12.2013                 artifacts- Keltron
               2014 1. G.O. (Rt.)                    Fund to Expert Committee Sree 1 Crore
                    No.1821/2014/ RD                 Padmanabha Swamy Temple
                    Dated 07.05.2014
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                               96

                       2. G.O. (Rt.)                 Fund for Strengthening Kallara -A 67.65
                       No.1843/2014/ RD              at Sree Padmanabha Swamy lakhs
                       Dated 12.05.2014              Temple – Expert Committee

                       3. G.O. (Rt.)                 Additional Fund to Digital 66.16
                       No.4308/2014/ RD              Archiving of Antiques and lakhs
                       Dated 02.09.2014              artifacts – Keltron

                    4. G.O. (Rt.)                    Fund allotted to Audit Committee   48 lakhs
                    No.4980/2014/ RD
                    Dated 16.10.2014
               2015 1. G.O. (Rt.)                    Renovation of Padma Theertham 1 Crore
                    No.09/2015/ RD                   pond
                    Dated 05.01.2015


                       2. G.O. (Rt.)                 Additional Fund to Digital 30.36
                       No.3133/2015/ RD              Archiving of Antiques and lakhs
                       Dated 18.06.2015              artifacts – Keltron

                    4. G.O. (Rt.)                    Additional Fund to Digital
                    No.6506/2015/ RD                 Archiving of antiques and artifacts 1.5125
                    Dated 05.12.2015                 – Keltron                           crore
               2016 G.O. (Rt)                        Fund to Expert Committee            10 lakhs
                    No.608/2016/RD
                    Dated 27.01.2016
               2017 2. G.O. (Rt)                     Fund to Expert Committee            5 lakhs
                    No.861/2017/RD
                    Dated 02.03.2017

                       3. G.O. (Rt)                  Renovation of Mithrananthapuram 1 Crore
                       No.2057/2017/RD               pond
                       Dated 01.05.2017

                    4. G.O. (Rt)                     Sewerline from Ramana Madom 28 lakhs
                    No.4555/2017/RD                  near north Nada of the Temple –
                    Dated 30.10.2017                 Water Authority
               2019 1. G.O. (Rt)                     Digital Archiving of Antiques and 18 lakhs
                    No.123/2019/RD                   artifacts – C- Dit (To Executive
                    Dated 10.01.2019                 Officer)

                       2. G.O. (Rt)                  Fund to Expert Committee           5 lakhs
                       No.124/2019/RD
                       Dated 10.01.2019
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           97


               Thus, Rs.6,02,16,000/- were spent on Digital Archiving of Antiques

      and Artifacts; Rs.1,21,65,000/- were spent on strengthening Kallara ‘A’ at the

      Temple;        Rs.1,20,00,000/-       were allotted         to   the Expert   Committee;

      Rs.48,00,000/- were allotted to the Audit Committee, while Rs.2,00,00,000/-

      were spent on renovation of two ponds.


      45.      Mr. P.B. Suresh, the learned counsel for respondents 3, 4 and 6 in appeal

      arising out of Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.12361 of 2011 submitted:-

               i)     The Covenants executed by the erstwhile Rulers have no existence

      and are not enforceable. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in

      Raghunathrao Ganpatrao14.

               ii)    Sections 18(2) and 20 of the TC Act, being against the principles

      and mandate emanating from Article 363A of the Constitution, are not

      enforceable. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Deep Chand

      and Others vs. State of U.P. and others22.

               iii) Consequently, no declaratory relief could be sought in respect of

      statutory provisions which have ceased to be valid.




      22 (1959) Supp 2 SCR 8
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      98
               iv) Exclusive private management of a public temple would be

      antithesis to the very character of a public temple. Reliance was placed on the

      decision of this Court in Bala Shankar Mahashankar Bhattjee and others vs.

      Charity Commissioner, Gujarat State23.


      46.      Thereafter, the learned counsel for the parties advanced submissions

      with regard to the Reports of the learned Amicus Curiae and Mr. Vinod Rai.

      This exercise involved entering into various factual issues for the first time in

      this Court. Since no adequate opportunity was afforded to various stakeholders

      involved in the matter, we refrain from considering the issues arising from said

      Reports.


      47.      In the end, a Note was given by the learned counsel for the appellants

      about the composition of Committees to take care of the affairs of the Temple.

      The Note was essentially in response to the affidavit of the Chief Secretary of

      the State which was filed on 06.11.2014. The Note suggested constitution of

      an Administrative Committee and an Advisory Committee as under:-

                   “1. The Petitioner, hereinafter referred to as the “Trustee”, is
                   placing below for the consideration of this Hon’ble Court his
                   proposal for the control and supervision of the affairs of Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple (the “Temple”). The Petitioner will



      23 (1995) Supp 1 SCC 485
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        99
                   file an appropriate undertaking in terms of the proposal with such
                   modifications as may be directed by this Hon’ble Court.

                   2. The Trustee shall delegate his powers of administration under
                   Section 18(2) of the Travancore-Cochin Hindu Religious
                   Institutions Act, 1950 (the “Act”) to a Committee (the
                   “Administrative Committee”) which shall administer the
                   Temple through an Executive Officer to be appointed by the
                   Committee.

                   3. The administrative Committee shall consist of five members:

                   a) a retired Indian Administrative Service Officer of the rank of
                   Secretary to Government of Kerala (“the State Government”)
                   to be nominated by the Trustee in consultation with Government
                   of Kerala who shall be the Chairperson of the Committee;

                   (b) one member nominated by the trustee;

                   (c) one member nominated by the Government of Kerala;

                   (d) one member nominated by the Ministry of Culture,
                   Government of India; and

                   (e) the Chief Thantri of the temple.

                   4. All members of the Administrative Committee shall be
                   Hindus, who shall satisfy the requirements under the proviso to
                   Section 2(aa) of the Act, as amended, for being appointed as
                   members of the Travancore Devaswom Board.

                                               …    …     …

                   8. On all policy matters relating to temple administration
                   including the matters referred to in paragraph 11 below, the
                   Trustee shall be guided by the advice of the Sree
                   Padmanabhaswamy Temple Committee constituted under
                   Section 20 of the Act (the “Advisory Committee”).

                   9.   The Advisory Committee shall consist of:
                        (a)     A retired High Court Judge who shall be nominated
                        by the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court and who shall
                        be the Chairperson of the Committee.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       100
                        (b)     One eminent person to be nominated by the Trustee;
                        and

                        (c)    A reputed chartered Accountant to be nominated by
                        the Chairperson in consultation with the Trustee.

                       The provisions in paragraphs 4 and 5 above shall apply
                   equally to the Advisory Committee.

                   10. The Advisory Committee shall ensure that regular annual
                   audit of the finances of the Temple is completed by a reputed
                   accounting firm, which shall be changed every three years.

                   11. The Administrative Committee shall not take any decision
                   on the following matters of policy except after obtaining the
                   approval of the Trustee:

                        (a) Any expense item exceeding Rs.15 lakhs per month;

                        (b) Any one-time expense of Rs.1 Crore;

                        (c) Any major renovation/expansion of the Temple;

                        (d) Any changes in the Standard Operating Procedures; and

                        (e) Any fundamental changes in the character of the Temple
                        that would affect the religious sentiments of its devotees.”


      48.       On the other hand, the State also submitted a Note stating:-

                   “It is proposing the following administrative / legal alternative
                   measures for the administration of Sree Padmanabha Swamy
                   Temple by forming a Managing Committee on the model of the
                   Guruvayur Devaswom Managing Committee, constituted for
                   administering the activities of Guruvayur Temple. It is also
                   submitted that Govt. will enable that Committee to administer the
                   Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple by amending Chapter III of the
                   TCHRI Act, 1950.

                   The following is extracted from the Preamble of the Guruvayur
                   Devaswom Act, 1978:
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         101
                          “Nos.211 and 212 of 1930, for the administration of the
                          said Temple, as modified by the District Court, South
                          Malabar, in O.S. No.1 of 1938, the administration,
                          control and management of the temple and its properties
                          and endowments had been vested in the hereditary
                          trustees, namely, the Zamorin Raja of Calicut and the
                          Karanavan for the time being of the Mallisseri Illom at
                          Guruvayur;

                   And whereas the administration and management of the said
                   Temple and its properties and endowments had deteriorated and
                   a situation had arisen rendering it expedient to reorganize, in the
                   interest of the general public, the scheme of Management of the
                   affairs of the Devaswom, the Guruvayur Devaswom Act, 1971,
                   was enacted to provide better management of the Devaswom in
                   suppression of the said scheme.”

                   In the present case, it is submitted that owing to a similar ground
                   of deteriorating condition of the Temple Administration, and
                   taking into consideration the rights of the devotees and erstwhile
                   “Royal Family” through the Padmanabhadasa, the State proposes
                   the following administrative / legal alternative for the
                   administration of Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple.
                                                … … …

                   3.     Constitution of a Committee:

                   1. The Committee constituted shall consist of 8 members and
                   shall be composed as follows:

                        a) The Padhmanabhadasa

                        b) The Senior Thantri – ex-officio

                        c) Not more than 5 members, of whom one shall be a member
                        of Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe and one shall be a woman
                        nominated by the Hindus among the Council of Ministers from
                        among persons having interest in the Temple.

                        d) A representative of the employee of the Devaswom
                        nominated by the Hindus among the Council of Ministers.

                   2. A person shall be disqualified for being nominated under
                   clause (c) of sub-section (1), if:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      102
                   (i) He believes the practice of untouchability or does not
                   profess the Hindu Religion or believe in temple worship; or

                   (ii) he is an employee under the Govt. or Devaswom; or

                   (iii)   he is below 30 years of age; or

                   (iv) he is subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in
                   clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 5.

                   3. The members of the Committee shall at it first meeting, elect
                   one of its members as Chairman.”


      49.       Before we consider the rival submissions, the unequivocal stand taken

      by the appellants in the grounds of appeal that “the Temple is a public temple

      and no claim can probably be made by the Petitioner or anyone to owning the

      Temple or its treasures” and that what was being sought was only the right as a

      trustee of the Temple to manage and administer it, must be noted at the outset.

      The said stand was expressly referred to in the Order dated 21.07.2011 by this

      Court, and subsequent Orders, and the consideration of the instant case has been

      premised on the said stand.


      50.       In the backdrop of the facts and circumstances on record, the issues

      concerning the status and entitlement of the appellant No.1 including the

      relationship vis-à-vis the Temple are concerned, the controversy can be

      considered under following five segments:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         103
              A]        Situation obtaining before and upto the date when the Covenant
                        was entered into in May 1949.

              B]        Effect of the Covenant that was entered into in May 1949.

              C]        Effect of the Constitution of India as it stood before the
                        Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971 and of the
                        provisions of the TC Act.

              D]        Effect of the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971.

              E]        Effect of the death of the person who had signed the Covenant as
                        the Ruler of Travancore.



      A]      Situation obtaining before and upto the date when the Covenant was
              entered into in May 1949


      51.       Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.11295 of 2011 from which the
      present appeal arises, asserted:-

                    “1375 to 2011        Recorded evidence shows that the Sri
                    A.D. (= 550          Padmanabhaswamy              Temple,
                    To 1186 M.E/         Thiruvananthapuram    temple    was
                                         administered by the Royal Family of
                    Malayalam Era)
                                         Venad/Travancore.

                                                Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple
                                         (hereinafter referred to as the ‘temple) is a
                                         famous temple of Lord Vishnu, located in
                                         Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. The temple
                                         is one of the 108th holiest abodes (‘Divya
                                         desoms’) of Lord Vishnu. Divya Desams
                                         are the holiest abodes of the Lord
                                         Mahavishnu that are mentioned in the
                                         works of the Tamil Azhvars (saints). The
                                         main deity, Sri Padmanabhaswamy, is a
                                         form of Vishnu in Anananthasayanam
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        104
                                         posture (in eternal sleep of yognidra) lying
                                         on Sri Anantha, the hooded snake. The city
                                         of Thiruvananthapuram is named after the
                                         Lord. The word Thiruvananthapuram
                                         literally means “The land of Sree Anantha
                                         Padmanabhaswamy”. As per the available
                                         literature the temple was established
                                         several millenniums ago.

                                                 The belief is that when Sri
                                         Vilwamangalam Swamiyar (Divakara
                                         Muni) had a vision of Sree Padmanabha in
                                         the dense woods of Ananthankad, the then
                                         king of Vanchinad (Travancore) took
                                         initiative to build the temple for the Lord.
                                         Thus, it is said, began the relation between
                                         the Travancore royal family and the
                                         Temple.”


      52.       With regard to the historical account about the establishment of the

      Temple, the written submissions filed on behalf of the appellant No.1 state:-


                   “18. Although the origins of the temple are shrouded in the mists
                   of antiquity, it is believed that the then Maharaja of Travancore
                   established the Temple in or around 1375. According to the
                   legends surrounding the Temples set out in Emily Gilchrist
                   Hatch’s book titled “Travancore” (Oxford University Press,
                   1939), there are two separate versions of how the Temple came
                   to be built:

                         (a) ….[A] five headed cobra put the child in a hole in
                         the tree and spread his hood to provide shelter from
                         the sun. this child was the incarnation of God Vishnu.
                         The Pulaya couple daily offered milk and kunjee in a
                         half coconut shell. The Ruler of Travancore heard of
                         this and immediately had a temple built at the very
                         place.

                         (b)“…The second story also tells a child… After
                         several days of wandering in the open country, the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    105
                         hungary, distressed Swamiyar heard a child’s cry….
                         As he started towards the place, he heard again the
                         tingle of waist-bells and immediately a huge tree fell
                         to the ground. There before him lay God Vishnu on
                         his thousand-headed serprent…. It is said that tree
                         which crashed to earth was carved into the image of
                         Vishnu over which the then Raja of Travancore
                         erected a temple.”

                   In both legends, therefore, it is the Maharaja of Travancore
                   who is said to have founded the Temple.

                   19. After the Temple was engulfed in a huge fire in 1686,
                   the then Maharaja of Travancore rebuilt the Temple.”



      53.       The account given by the High Court in para 4 of the judgment under

      appeal states that for over 200 years prior to the re-establishment of the princely

      state by Marthand Varma, the Temple was under the control of ‘Ettarayogam’

      (group of eight and a half) including ‘Ettuveettil Pillamars’ and then refers to

      the battle between Marthand Varma and his loyalists on one hand and the

      Ettuveettil Pillamars on the other, whereafter Marthand Varma took full control

      of the State and the Temple. The High Court then states, “… it is he (Marthand

      Varma) who reconstructed the Temple which was in bad shape after a major

      fire took place years back and installed a new idol.”


      54.       Though there may be different accounts and beliefs with regard to the

      origin and how the Temple was set up, every version accepts that the King of
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      106
      Travancore had a role in the administration of the Temple to begin with, and

      that he was the one who re-constructed the Temple after a major fire that

      occurred in the year 1686, and installed a new idol and took full control of the

      Temple. The King of Travancore was thus responsible for setting up the

      Temple, in the form that it stands today, and it was the King who installed the

      new idol, and since then the management of the Temple, till the Covenant was

      signed, had always been with the Kings of Travancore.


      55.       It is also asserted in the grounds in support of the appeal, that the royal

      family of Travancore had been making endowments in favour of the Temple

      and that Lord Padmanabha is considered as the family deity by the erstwhile

      royal family. Some of the practices adverted to in the Special Leave Petition

      were as under:-


                   “… …Historically, the petitioner and his predecessors have had a
                   very close association with the Padmanabhaswamy temple, and
                   holds a pre-eminent position in the rituals and practices of the
                   temple. Some of these are listed below:

                         i.    From the time a female member of the erstwhile
                         Royal Family conceives, there are special poojas in the
                         temple at prescribed periods and recitation of personal
                         prayers;

                         ii.   The Padmanabhadasa and the members of the royal
                         family escort the idols of Sree Padmanabha, Sree
                         Narasimha and Sree Krishna during the ‘Arattu’ procession
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         107
                         (Holy Bath of the Lord) to the beach and perform various
                         rituals;

                         iii. Every male child born to the erstwhile Royal Family,
                         after he completes one year, is made a ‘Dasa’ of Lord
                         Padmanabha before the sanctum sanctorium;

                         iv.   Every female child, born in the erstwhile Royal
                         Family, is made a ‘Sevini’ of Lord Padmanabha through
                         prescribed rituals;

                         v.    Special ceremonies are conducted at the time when
                         male members undergo ‘Upanayanam’ and at the time of
                         marriage of female members of the erstwhile Royal Family;

                         vi.   The Padmanabhadasa has many obligations and
                         whenever he breaches them, he imposes a penalty on
                         himself by way of compulsory offerings to the Lord;

                         vii. The Padmanabhadasa has to take the permission of
                         the deity when he leaves the town as per custom and by
                         offering ‘pattu’ and ‘kanikka’ (silk and offerings), he also
                         has to make amends for his absence depending on the length
                         of absence;

                         viii. The Padmanabhadasa has an ‘ekantha darshan’ with
                         the Lord, on all days in the morning hours, and at this time,
                         except the Nambi, all others are excluded;

                         ix.   Whenever a member of the royal family passes away,
                         the ‘veerali pattu’ with which the deity is covered is sent
                         form the temple to cover the body before cremation;

                         x.    In all temple rituals, the Padmanabhadasa is an
                         obligatory participant;

                         xi.    When the deity is taken out in procession, the
                         Padmanabhadasa leads the procession with drawn out
                         sword (udaval) alongwith the heir apparent.           The
                         Padmanabhadasa accompanies the deity for the Palliveta on
                         both the festivals and does the vetta on the behalf of the
                         deity.”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      108
      56.       The assertions referred to above were not denied or traversed. As a

      matter of fact, the stand in the affidavits filed on behalf of the State in the Courts

      below, accepts the position of the erstwhile royal family vis-à-vis the Temple

      and Sri Padmanabhaswamy. The affidavits were sworn by responsible officers

      holding the posts of Joint Secretary and Additional Secretary in the State

      Government. It was stated in both the affidavits;-

                   “… …There are also many temples owned by private Trustees
                   and local organization of Hindus too like the Attukal Bhagavathy
                   Temple, Pazhavangadi Ganpathy Temple etc. Sree Padmanabha
                   Swamy Temple is also such a family temple trust owned and
                   managed by the Travancore Palace … …

                   … …The traditional and customary belief that has been for long
                   recognized and accepted is that Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple
                   belongs to “Sree Padmanabha Dasas”, the Royal family head of
                   Travancore Palace and they command high regard respect and
                   esteem form the public. … …”


      57.       Leaving aside the issue of ownership as such status is not claimed by

      the appellant No.1 or any of the family members who have intervened, the fact

      remains that it is well accepted that the management of the Temple had all along

      been in the hands of the ruling family or the Travancore Palace. As stated by

      the State, that has been the traditional and customary belief. Such management

      has spanned, not for few years or decades, but dates back to centuries.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          109
      58.      The learned Amicus Curiae in his report dated 01.11.2012 had stated

      about the Temple and some of the erstwhile Rulers of Travancore as under:-


                   “29. In this context, it may be necessary to mention that the Sree
                   Padmanabha Swamy Temple is an integral part of the traditions
                   of the Royal family of the erstwhile State of Travancore and also
                   the people of Kerala (including the residents of the ancient city of
                   Thiruvananthapuram). It is interesting to note that Ashwathi
                   Thirunal Gouri Lakshmi Bayi (one of the members of the Royal
                   family), in her book Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple published
                   by the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, interestingly refers to the Prakrit
                   version and the final Sanskrit version of Sree Anandapuram from
                   Syanandoorapura. The Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple is
                   connected to twenty four holy teerthams and is also linked with
                   certain other temples, many of which are in the State of Tamil
                   Nadu. It may be noted that even today, Mathilakom records or
                   the palm leaves scrolls which recorded the ancient history of the
                   Temple and that of the erstwhile State of Travancore are available
                   in the Temple premises and in the Kerala State Archives….

                   30. It must also be noted that the idol of Lord Padmanabha is
                   made using katu sharkara yogam (a complex mixture of 8 natural
                   ingredients) in which 12008 Salagramas were filled in. This idol
                   made using katu sharkara yogam was consecrated in the year
                   1739 under the aegis of the erstwhile ruler of Travancore, Veera
                   Marthanda Verma (1706-1758). Salagrama is not a mere stone
                   but a stone of longstanding tradition and spiritual potency in
                   which it is believed that Hari or Lord Vishnu resides (hence, yatha
                   salagrame hari). Thus, Eashwara or god manifests Himself in
                   saguna forms in various ways – in the Salagrama as Vishnu, in
                   the lingam as Shiva and in the chakra as Devi (Mother Goddess).
                   Usually, when 12 salagrama shilas are worshipped, it equals the
                   potency of a mahakshetram or a great temple. Therefore, the
                   sanctity of Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple is a thousand fold.

                                              …     …     …

                   34. At this juncture, it would be appropriate to mention that the
                   Travancore Royal family is also called the Venadu Raja Vamsha
                   which is the off-shoot of Chera roya lineage and the Ayi royal
                   dynasty, and has always regarded Lord Padmanabha Swamy as
                   their tutelory Deity and this is confirmed by many historical
                   records where Lord Padmanabha is addressed as
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         110
                   ‘yadavendrakuladaivatam’       or    the    family      Deity    of
                   yadavakshatriyas (the present Travancore royalty); thereby
                   confirming that Sree Padmanabha Swamy is the ‘kuladaivta’ of
                   the entire family. It may be noted that devotees other than royalty
                   have worshipped Lord Padmanabha Swamy as their ‘ishta daivta’
                   or God of one’s personal choice.

                   35. It was in 1731 A.D. that the first King of the erstwhile
                   Travancore Royal family, Sree Veera Marthanda Varma, was
                   anointed. He was succeeded by Rama Varma (1758-1798).
                   Moreover, the Royal family consisted of deeply devoted members
                   who were dedicated to the Temple and who believed that their
                   lives centred around Sree Padmanabha Swamy. In 1750 A.D., the
                   entire State of Travancore was gifted to this Deity by a Deed and
                   the Rulers became servants of the Lord, calling themselves as
                   Padmanabhadasa. It may also be noted that many of the
                   Maharajas were great composers of shlokas as well as music. In
                   fact, many of the Rulers were protectors of the Vedas and the
                   vedic tradition. Further, the Temple was governed by a council
                   of trustees called Ettara Yogam headed by the King.

                   36. One of the greatest Kings of the Royal family was Sri Swathi
                   Thirunal Maharaja Rama Varma (1813-1846) who was a great
                   patron of the arts, literature, music and modern science. He was
                   an extraordinary King who presented an incorruptible system of
                   governance, framed the first code of regulations of Travancore,
                   advanced English education, contributed to a collection of rare
                   manuscripts and undertook a large number of social welfare
                   measures. In fact, Sri Swathi Thirunal is regarded as one of the
                   four great vidwans of Carnatic music – they being Muthuswamy
                   Dikshitar, Thyagaraja, Shyamasastry and Swati Thirunal. The
                   Kings including Sri Swathi Thirunal donated their personal
                   wealth to the Temple and, as recorded by Dr. Ventkata
                   Subramanya Iyer in his brilliant book ‘Swathi Thirunal and his
                   music’, during his eventful life, once when one of his courtesans
                   presented a varnam in his honour, the King directed that it should
                   not be used because only Lord Padmanabha Swamy must be
                   lauded with music.”


      59.      The practices referred to in the earlier paragraph show that right from

      the conception of a child upto the death of any member of the erstwhile royal
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     111
      family, special prayers are offered and certain rituals are followed. Every male

      child born in the erstwhile royal family, is made “Dasa” of Sri

      Padmanabhaswamy while every female child is made “Sevini” through

      prescribed rituals.         Special ceremonies are conducted at the time of

      ‘Upanayanam’ of a male member and marriage of a female member of the

      erstwhile royal family. Even assuming that these practices are being or could

      possibly be followed by other families as well, in addition to these features, the

      facts that the Ruler is an obligatory participant in various temple rituals; that he

      has an ‘Ekantha Darshan’ with Sri Padmanabhaswamy on all days in the

      morning hours where, except the Nambi, nobody else can remain present; that

      the Ruler has to take special permission whenever he leaves the town; and that

      whenever the deity is taken out in procession, the Ruler leads the procession

      with the sword drawn out, along with the heir apparent, establish the special

      relationship that the erstwhile royal family in general and the Ruler in

      particular, have always had with Sri Padmanabhaswamy. The ceremony of

      Dedication undertaken by the then ruler in 1750 A.D. bears testimony to such

      relationship as well as the deep devotion and sense of complete surrender

      before Sri Padmanabhaswamy. “The Thrippati Danam”, the translation of

      which is set out in paragraph 5, shows that “all the lands and functions together
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   112
      with all rights and dignities, positions of honour and all other possessions” that

      the royal family was enjoying hitherto before, were dedicated to Sri

      Padmanabhaswamy. Even the royal sword was placed with utmost reverence

      on the Ottakkal Mandapam leading to the Sanctum, which the King got back

      from the high priest. Every further acquisition by the King was always

      surrendered to Sri Padmanabhaswamy. The King and his successors thus ruled

      and conducted themselves as “Padmanabhadasas” and agents of Sri

      Padmanabhaswamy.


      60.      Tested on any parameter, such as historical accounts, popular and

      customary beliefs, certain practices connected with the rituals and affairs of the

      Temple that mandatorily require the presence and participation of the Ruler,

      deep involvement of the members of ruling family and their connection with

      the Temple and Sri Padmanabhaswamy at various stages of their lives, “The

      Thrippati Danam” and its significance, and long recognised and accepted fact

      that the management of the Temple had always been with the Ruler, lead us to

      conclude that for centuries, the Temple had been under the exclusive

      management of successive Rulers from the ruling family of Travancore and

      that the Rulers of Travancore, till the signing of the Covenant, were in the

      capacity as Managers or Shebaits of the Temple.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                113

                The expression Shebait is derived from “sewa” which means service

      and Shebait, in literal sense, means one who renders “sewa” to the idol or a

      deity. Every Ruler of Travancore would call himself “Padmanabhadasa” i.e.

      one who is engaged in the service of Sri Padmanabhaswamy.


      61.      The Travancore Interim Constitution Act, 1123, which came into force

      on 24.03.1948 i.e. before the Covenant was entered into, is also a factor that

      points in the direction of the aforesaid conclusion. In terms of this Act, all

      matters connected with Sri Pandaravaka (which expression admittedly referred

      to the Temple and the extensive lands belonging to Sri Padmanabhaswamy) as

      well as Devaswoms and Hindu Religious Endowments were stated to be under

      the exclusive control and supervision of the Ruler of Travancore. This Act by

      itself does not determine the status of the Ruler of Travancore with respect to

      Sri Pandaravaka and the Dewaswoms and Hindu Religious Endowments in

      Travancore, but is indicative of the requisite intent on part of the Ruler of

      Travancore to retain to himself the matters concerning administration and

      management of Sri Pandaravaka and Dewaswoms and Hindu Religious

      Endowments.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          114
      62.      Having considered the factual scenario, we must now consider the legal

      character and incidents of Shebaitship. On the issue of the legal position of a

      Shebait and succession to the office of the Shebait, some of the leading

      decisions of the Privy Council and of this Court are as follows:-

      a)        In Gossamee Sree Greedharreejee vs. Rumanlolljee Gossamee24 the

      Privy Council stated:-

                   “According to Hindu law, when the worship of a thakoor has been
                   founded, the shebaitship is held to be vested in the heirs of the
                   founder, in default of evidence that he has disposed of it
                   otherwise, or there has been some usage, course of dealing, or
                   some circumstances to show a different mode of devolution. This
                   principle is illustrated by the decision in the case of Peet Koonwur
                   v. Chutter Dharee Singh25, and in the present case some of the
                   learned Judges of the High Court have affirmed it, while none has
                   expressed dissent from it. One learned Judge thought that the
                   principle does not apply to this case, because Dowjee was not the
                   founder of the Calcutta worship. But their Lordships adopt the
                   view of the other Judges, and holding that the mortal Dowjee was
                   the founder they must also hold that the Plaintiff is by general law
                   the shebait of that worship.”
                                                                      (Emphasis added)



      b)        The afore-stated principles were expounded further by the Privy

      Council in Vidya Varuthi Thirtha Swamigal vs. Balusami Ayyar and Ors.26

                   “It is also to be remembered that a "trust," in the sense in which
                   the expression is used in English law, is unknown in the Hindu
                   system, pure and simple. (J.G. Ghose, "Hindu Law," page 276.)
                   Hindu piety found expression in gifts to idols and images

      24 16 M.I.A.137 : (1889) L.R. 16 I.A. 137
      25 13 Suth. W.R. 396
      26 AIR 1922 PC 123     : 48 I.A. 302
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            115
                   consecrated and installed in temples, to religious institutions of
                   every kind, and for all purposes considered meritorious in the
                   Hindu social and religious system: to Brahmans, Goswamis,
                   sanyasis, etc. When the gift was to a holy person, it carried with
                   it in terms or by usage and custom certain obligations. Under the
                   Hindu law the image of a deity of the Hindu pantheon is, as has
                   been aptly called, a "juristic entity," vested with the capacity of
                   receiving gifts and holding property. Religious institutions,
                   known under different names, are regarded as possessing the
                   same "juristic" capacity, and gifts are made to them eo nomine.
                   In many cases in Southern India, especially where the diffusion
                   of Aryan Brahmanism was essential for bringing the Dravidian
                   peoples under the religious rule of the Hindu system, colleges and
                   monasteries under the names of mutt were founded under spiritual
                   teachers of recognized sanctity. These men had and have ample
                   discretion in the application of the funds of the institution, but
                   always subject to certain obligations and duties, equally governed
                   by custom and usage. When the gift is directly to an idol or a
                   temple, the seisin to complete the gift is necessarily effected by
                   human agency. Called by whatever name, he is only the manager
                   and custodian of the idol or the institution. In almost every case
                   he is given the right to a part of the usufruct, the mode of
                   enjoyment and the amount of the usufruct depending again on
                   usage and custom. In no case was the property conveyed to or
                   vested in him, nor is he a "trustee" in the English sense of the
                   term, although in view of the obligations and duties resting on
                   him, he is answerable as a trustee, in the general sense, for
                   maladministration.”
                                                                    (Emphasis added)

        c)      In Bhaba Tarini Debi vs. Asha Lata Debi27, while dealing with the

        rights of a Shebait, the Privy Council stated:-


                   “The shebait has certainly a right of property in his office and it
                   may be correct to say that he has some sort of beneficial interest
                   in the debuttar property, but the idol is the owner of the property
                   and the limit set to the shebait’s power of disposition is set, not to
                   preserve the interest of the next shebait, but to maintain and
                   preserve by proper management the endowment or religious
                   institution.”
      27 AIR 1943 PC 89 : (1943) ILR 2 P.C. 137
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           116

                The following passage from the decision of the High Court (per B.K.

        Mukherjea, J.28) which was under appeal, was quoted by the Privy Council

        with approval:-


                        “To me it seems that both the elements of office and
                        property, of duties and personal interest, are mixed up and
                        blended together in the conception of shebaitship. One of the
                        elements cannot be detached from the other. The entire rights
                        remain with the grantor when a deity is founded and it is
                        open to him to dispose of these rights in any way he likes. If
                        there is no disposition, shebaitship remains like any other
                        heritable property in the line of the founder and each
                        succeeding shebait succeeds to the rights by virtue of his
                        being an heir to his immediate predecessor and not to the
                        original grantor. If it is disposed of completely and
                        absolutely in favour of another person, there remains nothing
                        in the grantor except the possibility of a reverter when there
                        is a failure of extinction of the line of shebaits indicated by
                        him. If, on the other hand, the founder has parted with his
                        rights only in a partial manner for the lifetime of the grantee
                        the residue still remains in him and his heirs, and on the death
                        of the grantee, the heir of the founder living at the time is
                        entitled to the shebaitship. If the grantee in such cases
                        happens to be the sole heir of the founder upon whom the
                        residuary right devolves at the same time and he becomes the
                        shebait under law as well, then, whether or not we invoke the
                        technical doctrine of merger or coalescence of the particular
                        estate with the residue, his position in my opinion is that of
                        an absolute shebait whose rights devolve upon his heirs and
                        not upon the heirs of the founder at his death.”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)




      28 Later, Chief Justice of India.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             117
      d)       In the decision rendered in May 1951 in Angurbala Mullick21, a Bench

      of four Judges of this Court had an occasion to consider the legal position of a

      Shebait. In the leading Judgment authored by B.K. Mukherjea, J. 29, it was

      observed:-

                   “The exact legal position of a shebait may not be capable of
                   precise definition but its implications are fairly well established.
                   It is settled by the pronouncement of the Judicial Committee in
                   Vidya Varuti v. Balusami26 that the relation of a shebait in regard
                   to debutter property is not that of a trustee to trust property under
                   the English law. In English law the legal estate in the trust
                   property vests in the trustee who holds it for the benefit of cestui
                   que trust. In a Hindu religious endowment on the other hand the
                   entire ownership of the dedicated property is transferred to the
                   deity or the institution itself as a juristic person and the shebait or
                   mahant is a mere manager.

                   But though a shebait is a manager and not a trustee in the technical
                   sense, it would not be correct to describe the shebaitship as a mere
                   office. The shebait has not only duties to discharge in connection
                   with the endowment, but he has a beneficial interest in the
                   debutter property. As the Judicial Committee observed in the
                   above case, in almost all such endowments the shebait has a share
                   in the usufruct of the debutter property which depends upon the
                   terms of the grant or upon custom or usage. Even where no
                   emoluments are attached to the office of the shebait, he enjoys
                   some sort of right or interest in the endowed property which
                   partially at least has the character of a proprietary right. Thus, in
                   the conception of shebaiti both the elements of office and
                   property, of duties and personal interest, are mixed up and
                   blended together; and one of the elements cannot be detached
                   from the other. It is the presence of this personal or beneficial
                   interest in the endowed property which invests shebaitship with
                   the character of proprietary rights and attaches to it the legal
                   incidents of property. This was elaborately discussed by a Full
                   Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Manohar Mukherji v.
                   Bhupendra Nath Mukherji30 and this decision of the Full Bench

      29 As the learned Chief Justice then was
      30 I.L.R.(1933) 60 Cal. 452
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          118
                   was approved of by the Judicial Committee in Ganesh Chunder
                   Dhur v. Lal Behary31 and again in Bhabatarini v. Ashalata27. The
                   effect of the first two decisions, as the Privy Council pointed out
                   in the last case, was to emphasize the proprietary element in the
                   shebaiti right, and to show that though in some respects
                   anomalous, it was an anomaly to be accepted as having been
                   admitted into Hindu law from an early date. "According to Hindu
                   law," observed Lord Hobhouse in Gossamee Sree
                   Greedharreejee v. Rumanlolljee Gossamee24, when the worship
                   of a Thakoor has been founded, the shebaitship is held to be
                   vested in the heirs of the founder, in default of evidence that he
                   has disposed of it otherwise, or there has been some usage, course
                   of dealing, or some circumstances to show a different mode of
                   devolution.

                   Unless, therefore, the founder has disposed of the shebaitship in
                   any particular manner - and this right of disposition is inherent in
                   the founder - or except when usage or custom of a different nature
                   is proved to exist, shebaitship like any other species of heritable
                   property follows the line of inheritance from the founder.”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)


      63.       Soon thereafter, the author of the leading Judgment in Angurbala

      Mullick21, delivered Tagore Law Lectures in August 1951 which were then

      published in the form of a comprehensive book under the caption “The Hindu

      Law of Religious Endowments and Charitable Trusts”. After dealing with

      endowments created by dedication of water tanks and similar works for general

      consumption, in the Fourth Edition of the Book32, it is stated:-

                   “1.54     Administrators or managers of endowments are
                   trustees in the general sense:-



      31 (1935-36) 63 I.A. 448
      32 Edited by Hon. P.B. Gajendragadkar, former Chief Justice of India
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           119
                   With regard to all other types of endowment it is necessary for the
                   purpose of carrying out the intentions of the donor that somebody
                   should be entrusted with the management or administration
                   thereof. As was observed by Mukherjee. J. in Manohar vs.
                   Bhupendra30, in ancient times, except in cases of property
                   dedicated to a brotherhood of ascetics, all endowments were
                   administered ordinarily by the founder himself and after his death
                   by his heirs. This was the case not only with regard to temples but
                   also in respect of non-religious charitable institutions like
                   choultries, Sadabratas etc. It was only in case of public temples
                   that the practice of appointing shebaits was generally resorted to.
                   But whoever may be the person in whom the duty of
                   administration is vested, whether it is the shebait or archaka of a
                   temple or the Mohant of a religious institution and whether or not
                   such person is the heir of the original founder, he must be deemed
                   to be in the position of a trustee with regard to the endowed
                   property. As I have said already he may not be a trustee in the
                   sense in which the expression is used in English law. To quote
                   the language of the Judicial Committee in Vidyavarathi vs.
                   Baluswami26 as in no case is the property conveyed to or vested
                   in him he is not a trustee under the English law’; but it was pointed
                   out by the Privy Council that in view of the obligations resting on
                   him he is answerable as a trustee in the general sense. I have
                   already pointed out that the word “Trust” in English law involves
                   a highly technical idea which owes its origin to purely historical
                   circumstances and of which no parallel exists in any other system
                   of law.”
                                                                     (Emphasis added)

               With regard to the nature of rights of a Shebait, the author stated:

                   “5.1A. Shebait the human ministrant of the deity. – In my last
                   lecture33, I have dealt with the general features of a religious
                   endowment which is known as Debutter, and which arises on
                   dedication or gift of property to an idol. It would now be
                   necessary to enter into details and discuss how a Debutter is
                   managed and administered. As has been said already, “it is in an
                   ideal sense that the dedicated property vests in an idol,” and in the
                   nature of things the possession and management of it must be
                   entrusted to some person as Shebait or manager.



      33 Chapter 4 – Religious Trusts in favour of Idols (Debutter)
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             120
                   “It would seem to follow,” the Judicial Committee observed in
                   Prosonna Kumari Debya vs. Golab Chand Baboo,34 “that the
                   person so entrusted must, of necessity, be empowered to do
                   whatever may be required for the service of the idol and for the
                   benefit and preservation of its property, at least to as great as the
                   manager of an infant heir. If this were not so, the estate of the
                   idol might be destroyed or wasted, and its worship discontinued
                   for want of necessary funds to preserve and maintain them.” This
                   human ministrant of the deity, who is its manager and legal
                   representative, is known by the name of Shebait in Bengal and
                   Northern India. He is called the Dharmakarta in the Tamil and
                   Telugu districts, Panchayetdar in places like Tanjore and Urallen
                   in Malabar. He is the person entitled to speak on behalf of the
                   deity on earth and is endowed with authority to deal with all its
                   temporal affairs. As regards the temple property, the manager is
                   in the position of a trustee, but as regards the service of the temple
                   and the duties that appertain to it he is rather in the position of the
                   holder of an office of dignity35. For convenience I will call the
                   manager by the general name of Shebait, though I am aware that
                   a distinction has been made in some cases between a Shebait and
                   a Dharmakarta36.
                                        …      …      …

                   5.5. Shebaitship is not a mere office, it is property as well.-
                   But though a Shebait is a manager and not a trustee in the
                   technical sense, it would not be correct to describe shebaitship as
                   a mere office. The Shebait has not only duties to discharge in
                   connection with the endowment, he has also a personal interest in
                   it. As the Judicial Committee pointed out in the above case, in
                   almost all Debutter endowments, the Shebait has a share in the
                   usufruct of the Debutter property, which depends either on the
                   terms of the grant or upon custom or usage. Even when no
                   emoluments are attached to the office of a Shebait, he enjoys
                   some sort of right or interest in the endowed property which has
                   partially at least the characteristics of a proprietary right. You
                   shall see later on37 that although the Shebait’s power to alienate
                   the Debutter property is very much limited and can be exercised
                   only when there is a justifying legal necessity or benefit to the

      34 (1875) L.R. 2 I.A. 145
      35 Ramanathan Chetti  vs. Muruguppa - (1906) L.R. 33 I.A. 139
      36 See Srinivasa v. Evalappa, L.R. 49 I.A. 237 : AIR 1922 P.C. 325, 33 approving

      Vidyapurma vs. Vidyanidhi (1904) I.L.R. 27 Mad. 435
      37 Chapter 6 (Administration of Debutter: Rights, Duties and Powers of a Shebait)
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        121
                   deity, yet he can create derivative tenures in respect of the
                   endowed property, which even if not supported by legal necessity
                   cannot be impeached so long as he is alive and remains in office.
                   The Shebait therefore has to some extent the rights of a limited
                   owner. It has now been decided by a Full Bench of the Calcutta
                   High Court30 after an elaborate review of all authorities that
                   shebaitship is property, with regard to the disposition of which
                   the rule in Tagore vs. Tagore38 is applicable, and this decision
                   has been approved of by the Privy Council in Ganesh Chandra
                   vs. Lal Behari31 and again in Bhabatarini vs. Ashalata27. In
                   Janki Raman vs. Koshalyanandan39, the founder of an
                   endowment had provided that the office of shebaitship should be
                   held by three brothers and that it should devolve on their heirs.
                   One of the brothers having relinquished his right in favour of the
                   other two brothers, it was held that the devolution of the office
                   was governed by the general law of succession relating to
                   property, and that a relinquishment by the holder of an office was
                   not binding upon his heirs and could not enure beyond his
                   lifetime.

                   5.6A. Shebaitship remains in the founder and his heirs unless
                   disposed of. - When a deity is installed, the shebaitship remains
                   in he founder and his heirs. “According to Hindu law,” thus
                   observed Lord Hobhouse in Gossamee Sree Greedhareejee vs.
                   Ruman Lalljee24 - and this observation has been reiterated in
                   numerous cases since then – “when the worship of a Thakoor has
                   been founded, the shebaitship is held to be vested in the heirs of
                   the founder in default of evidence that he has disposed of it
                   otherwise, or there has been some usage, course of dealing, or
                   some circumstances to stow a different mode of devolution.”
                   Unless therefore the founder has disposed of the shebaitship in
                   any particular way and except when an usage or custom of a
                   different nature is proved to exist, shebaitship like any other
                   species of heritable property follows the line of inheritance from
                   the founder.
                                              … … …

                   5.31. Extinction of the life of Shebaits. – When the line of
                   Shebaits laid down by the founder is extinct, or when the Shebait
                   to whom a power of nomination is given does not exercise the


      38   9 B.L.R. 377
      39 A.I.R. 1961  Pat. 293
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          122
                   power, the managership reverts to the founder who endowed the
                   property or his heirs40.

                   In case the line of Shebaits is extinct, there is always an ultimate
                   reversion to the founder or his heirs and strictly speaking, no
                   escheat arises so far as the devolution of Shebaitship is concerned.
                   But cases may theoretically be concerned where the founder also
                   has left no heirs; and in such cases the founder’s properties may
                   escheat to the State together with the endowed property. In very
                   rare circumstances like these, the right of the State would possibly
                   be the same as those of the founder himself, and it would be for
                   the State to appoint a Shebait for the Debutter property. It cannot
                   be said that the State receiving a dedicated property by escheat
                   can put an end to the trust and treat it as secular property.

                   Some observations occur in the judgment of Muthuswami Ayyar
                   and Shephard, JJ. In Mallan v. Purusothoma41, which would
                   seem to suggest that the Government getting the property by right
                   of escheat can put an end to an arrangement made by the original
                   owners under which a certain property was kept undivided for
                   being used for the worship of a deity. There is, however, no
                   finding in this case that the property was actually dedicated to the
                   deity, and from the observations of the High Court it appears that
                   there was only a personal arrangement between the co-sharers
                   under which it was excluded from partition.”
                                                                   (Underlined by us)


      64.       In the decision in Angurbala Mullick21 as well as in the Book as stated

      above, reference was made to the Full Bench decision of the Calcutta High

      Court in Manohar Mukherjee vs. Bhupendra Nath Mukherjee and Ors. 30,

      where one of the issues for consideration was: whether founder of a Hindu

      debutter was competent to lay down rules to govern the succession to the office


      40 Sabitri Thakurani
                         vs. F.A. Savi, I.L.R. 12 Pat. 359; Jagannath v. Ranjit Singh,
      I.L.R. 25 Cal. 354
      41 I.L.R. 12 Mad. 287, 291.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            123
      of Shebait. Asutosh Mookerjee, J. speaking on behalf of the Bench of five

      Judges had observed:-

                   “15. The deity is the recipient of the gift only in an ideal sense;
                   the dedicated property belongs to the deity in a similar sense; in
                   reality the property dedicated is in the nature of an ownerless
                   thing. In ancient times, except in cases of property dedicated to a
                   brotherhood of sanyasis, all endowments ordinarily were
                   administered by the founder himself and after him his heirs. The
                   idea of appointing a shebait is of more modern growth. When a
                   Hindu creates an endowment, its management is primarily in him
                   and his heirs, and unless he appoints a shebait, he himself fills
                   that office and in him rests that limited ownership,-
                   notwithstanding that, on the one hand, he is the donor and, on the
                   other, the recipient on behalf of the deity, the juridical person-
                   which has to be exercised until the property offered to the deity
                   has been suitably disposed of. … … … This idea of limited
                   ownership is the essence of the position of the manager or
                   custodian of a dedicated property, by whatever name he may be
                   called. That this idea is the only basis on which decisions of the
                   highest authority as regards the rights and powers of shebaits may
                   be justified will be seen hereafter when some of these decisions
                   will be referred to.
                                               … … …

                   26. Shebaitship in its true legal conception involves two ideas:
                   The ministrant of the deity and its manager; it is not a bare office
                   but an office together with certain rights attached to it. A shebait's
                   position towards the debutter property is not similar to that in
                   England of a trustee towards the trust property; it is only that
                   certain duties have to be performed by him which are analogous
                   to those of trustees. … …”
                                                                     (Emphasis added)


      65.       On 16.03.1954, a Bench of seven Judges of this Court speaking through

      B.K. Mukherjea, J.29 held in The Commissioner, Hindu Religious

      Endowments, Madras vs. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           124
      Mutt42, inter alia, that what had been laid down in series of decisions with

      regard to the rights of a Shebait would apply with equal propriety to the office

      of a Mahant. It was stated:-

                   “As regards the property rights of a Mathadhipati, it may not be
                   possible to say in view of the pronouncements of the Judicial
                   Committee, which have been accepted as good law in this country
                   ever since 1921, that a Mathadhipati holds the Math property as a
                   life tenant or that his position is similar to that of a Hindu widow
                   in respect to her husband’s estate or of an English Bishop holding
                   a benefice. He is certainly not a trustee in the strict sense. He may
                   be, as the Privy Council26 says, a manager or custodian of the
                   institution who has to discharge the duties of a trustee and is
                   answerable as such; but he is not a mere manager and it would not
                   be right to describe Mahantship as a mere office. A superior of a
                   Math has not only duties to discharge in connection with the
                   endowment but he has a personal interest of a beneficial character
                   which is sanctioned by custom and is much larger than that of a
                   Shebait in the debutter property. It was held by a Full Bench of
                   the Calcutta High Court30 that Shebaitship itself is property, and
                   this decision was approved of by the Judicial Committee in
                   Ganesh v. Lal Behary31 and again in Bhabatarini v. Ashalata27.
                   The effect of the first two decisions, as the Privy Council pointed
                   out in the last case, was to emphasise the proprietary element in
                   the Shebaiti right and to show that though in some respects an
                   anomaly, it was an anomaly to be accepted as having been
                   admitted into Hindu law from an early date. This view was
                   adopted in its entirety by this Court in Angurbala v. Debabrata21
                   and what was said in that case in respect to Shebaiti right could,
                   with equal propriety, be applied to the office of a Mahant. Thus
                   in the conception of Mahantship, as in Shebaitship, both the
                   elements of office and property, of duties and personal interest
                   are blended together and neither can be detached from the other.
                   The personal or beneficial interest of the Mahant in the
                   endowments attached to an institution is manifested in his large
                   powers of disposal and administration and his right to create
                   derivative tenures in respect to endowed properties; and these and
                   other rights of a similar character invest the office of the Mahant
                   with the character of proprietary right which, though anomalous
                   to some extent, is still a genuine legal right. It is true that the
      42 (1954) SCR 1005
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           125
                   Mahantship is not heritable like ordinary property, but that is
                   because of its peculiar nature and the fact that the office is
                   generally held by an ascetic, whose connection with his natural
                   family being completely cut off, the ordinary rules of succession
                   do not apply.
                                                                  (Emphasis added)

                   There is no reason why the word “property”, as used in Article
                   19(1)(f) of the Constitution, should not be given a liberal and wide
                   connotation and should not be extended to those well recognised
                   types of interest which have the insignia or characteristics of
                   proprietary right. As said above, the ingredients of both office and
                   property, of duties and personal interest are blended together in
                   the rights of a Mahant and the Mahant has the right to enjoy this
                   property or beneficial interest so long as he is entitled to hold his
                   office. To take away this beneficial interest and leave him merely
                   to the discharge of his duties would be to destroy his character as
                   a Mahant altogether. It is true that the beneficial interest which he
                   enjoys is appurtenant to his duties and as he is in charge of a
                   public institution, reasonable restrictions can always be placed
                   upon his rights in the interest of the public. But the restrictions
                   would cease to be reasonable if they are calculated to make him
                   unfit to discharge the duties which he is called upon to discharge.
                   A Mahant’s duty is not simply to manage the temporalities of a
                   Math. He is the head and superior of spiritual fraternity and the
                   purpose of Math is to encourage and foster spiritual training by
                   maintenance of a competent line of teachers who could impart
                   religious instructions to the disciples and followers of the Math
                   and try to strengthen the doctrines of the particular school or
                   order, of which they profess to be adherents. This purpose cannot
                   be served if the restrictions are such as would bring the
                   Mathadhipati down to the level of a servant under a State
                   department. It is from this standpoint that the reasonableness of
                   the restrictions should be judged.”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        126
      66.       Within few months, in the decision in Mahant Sital Das vs. Sant Ram

      and others43 rendered on 08.04.1954, B.K. Mukherjea, J.29 speaking for a

      Bench of four Judges stated:-


                   “In the appeal before us the contentions raised by the parties
                   primarily centre round the point as to whether after the death
                   of Kishore Das, the plaintiff or the defendant No.3 acquired
                   the rights of Mahant in regard to the Thakardwara in dispute.
                   The law is well settled that succession to Mahantship of a
                   Math or religious institutions is regulated by custom or usage
                   of the particular institution, except where a rule of
                   succession is laid down by the founder himself who created
                   the endowment. As the Judicial Committee laid down –
                   Vide Genda Puri v. Chhatar Puri44, in one of the many cases
                   on this point: “in determining who is entitled to succeed as
                   Mohunt, the only law to be observed is to be found in the
                   custom and practice, which must be proved by testimony,
                   and the claimant must show that he is entitled according to
                   the custom to recover the office and the land and property
                   belonging to it……………… Mere infirmity of the title of the
                   defendant, who is in possession, will not help the plaintiff:.”

                                                                    (Emphasis added)

      67.       In His Holiness Digya Darshan Rajendra Ram Doss v. Devendra

      Doss45, a Bench of three Judges of this Court observed:-

                   “7. In our opinion, the rule of custom should prevail in all cases
                   and if any aberrations have to be corrected such correction must
                   take us in the direction of re-establishing the rule of custom. To
                   that extent the principle laid down in the case of Annasami Pillai
                   v. Ramakrishna Mudaliar46 is a correct principle and has to be

      43 AIR 1954 SC 606
      44 13 Ind App – page 105 (PC)(A)
      45 (1973) 1 SCC 14
      46 ILR 28 Mad 219
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          127
                   followed. That, however, does not resolve the difficulty in this
                   case. Assuming that Chetan Doss was not a validly appointed
                   Mahant so that his period of office is to be ignored, the question
                   still arises whether in making a reversion to the customary rule of
                   succession to the office of a Mahant such reversion is to operate
                   from the point where Chetandoss’ period ended or from the point
                   when this had commenced. It is only an accident that in this case
                   Chetandoss has a very brief period of office so that on his death
                   it was at least possible to find one surviving disciple of the
                   Mahant who held the office before Chetan Doss succeeded him.
                   In most cases if there is a break in the customary rule it may not
                   at all be possible to revert back to the customary succession if one
                   has to start from the point where the original break had
                   commenced. In such cases even if it may be possible to revert to
                   the customary practice, it may not be possible to go back to the
                   point where the customary line of succession had its original
                   break. Thus, in this case though it has been possible to trace at
                   least one person who was a disciple of Narayan Doss after whose
                   death the customary practice was broken and the office handed
                   over to an alleged interloper, even this lone survivor of the
                   original line of succession is not a person who is competent to
                   become the Mahant by the immemorial custom of the Mutt.
                   Therefore, it is not possible at all to re-establish the customary
                   line of succession if one treats the period of Chetan Doss’
                   Mahantship as altogether non-existing. If we have to revert to the
                   custom of the Mutt we cannot do so from the point of time when
                   Narayan Doss died and Chetan Doss became the Mahant. We
                   have to do so from the point when Chetan Doss died. After all,
                   Chetandoss has been unquestionably the Mahant of the Mutt. It is
                   true that on a subsequent re-examination of the whole matter,
                   doubts have been cast on his title for the office but by common
                   acceptance of the Chelas of the Mutt he had become the Mahant
                   and had remained a Mahant till his death. Ignoring the fact that he
                   was really the Mahant of this Mutt for a specific period does not
                   help us to re-establish the rule of custom prevailing in this Mutt.
                   The only possible way in which the old custom may be re-
                   established is by making a fresh start from the point of the death
                   of Chetandoss and that can only be done by allowing Devendra
                   Doss to be the Mahant. The High Court has come to a clear
                   finding that Devendra Doss is a North-Indian Brahmin and is
                   therefore fit to hold the office of a Mahant according to the
                   custom of this Mutt. The High Court has also found that he was
                   the senior-most disciple of Chetandoss who had been the reigning
                   Mahant up to the point of time when the dispute regarding
                   succession arose. If Rajendra Ram Doss’ right to become the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            128
                   Mahant be rejected on the ground that Chetandoss was perhaps
                   an interloper the whole line of succession will be broken beyond
                   repair or redemption, for, once it is accepted that Rajendra Ram
                   Doss is not a North-Indian Brahmin there is no other living
                   disciple of Narayan Doss who could restore the original line of
                   succession. In our view it is not open to us to lay down a new rule
                   of succession or to alter the rule of succession completely. The
                   only way we can save the custom is by accepting something as
                   fact which has so far been accepted by everybody concerned with
                   the Mutt as a fact and which cannot any longer be undone without
                   demolishing altogether the custom of the Mutt. In these
                   circumstances we hold that Devendra Doss is entitled to succeed
                   Chetan Doss as his senior-most disciple on the strength of the
                   immemorial custom of this Mutt.”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)


      68.      In Profulla Chorone Requitte20, the principles were summed up by this

      Court as under:-

                   “20. Before dealing with these contentions, it will be appropriate
                   to have a clear idea of the concept, the legal character and
                   incidents of shebaitship. Property dedicated to an idol vests in it
                   in an ideal sense only; ex necessitas, the possession and
                   management has to be entrusted to some human agent. Such an
                   agent of the idol is known as shebait in Northern India. The legal
                   character of a shebait cannot be defined with precision and
                   exactitude. Broadly described, he is the human ministrant and
                   custodian of the idol, its earthly spokesman, its authorised
                   representative entitled to deal with all its temporal affairs and to
                   manage its property. As regards the administration of the
                   debutter, his position is analogous to that of a trustee; yet, he is
                   not precisely in the position of a trustee in the English sense,
                   because under Hindu Law, property absolutely dedicated to an
                   idol, vests in the idol, and not in the shebait. Although the debutter
                   never vests in the shebait, yet, peculiarly enough, almost in every
                   case, the shebait has a right to a part of the usufruct, the mode of
                   enjoyment, and the amount of the usufruct depending again on
                   usage and custom, if not devised by the founder.
                                                                       (Emphasis added)
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           129
                   21. As regards the service of the temple and the duties that
                   appertain to it, he is rather in the position of the holder of an
                   office; but even so, it will not be quite correct to describe
                   shebaitship as a mere office. “Office and property are both
                   blended in the conception of shebaitship”. Apart from the
                   obligations and duties resting on him in connection with the
                   endowment, the shebait has a personal interest in the endowed
                   property. He has, to some extent, the rights of a limited owner.”

                   22. Shebaitship being property, it devolves like any other species
                   of heritable property. It follows that, where the founder does not
                   dispose of the shebaiti rights in the endowment created by him,
                   the shebaitship devolves on the heirs of the founder according to
                   Hindu Law, if no usage or custom of a different nature is shown
                   to exist. [Gossamee Shree Greedharreejee v. Ramanlaljee.24]

                   23. Then, there is a distinction between a public and private
                   debutter. In a public debutter or endowment, the dedication is for
                   the use or benefit of the public. But in a private endowment, when
                   property is set apart for the worship of a family idol, the public
                   are not interested. The present case is one of a private debutter.
                   The distinction is important, because the results logically
                   following therefrom have been given effect to by courts,
                   differently.

                   24. According to English law, the beneficiaries in a private trust,
                   if sui juris and of one mind, have the power or authority to put an
                   end to the trust or use the trust fund for any purpose and divert it
                   from its original object. Whether this principle applies to a private
                   endowment or debutter created under Hindu Law, is a question
                   on which authorities are not agreed. In Doorganath Roy v. Ram
                   Chunder Sen47 it was observed that while the dedication is to a
                   public temple, the family of the founder could not put an end to
                   it, but “in the case of a family idol, the consensus of the whole
                   family might give the (debutter) estate another direction” and turn
                   it into a secular estate.

                   25. Subsequently, in Pramatha Nath Mullick v. Pradhyumna
                   Kumar Mullick48 the Judicial Committee clarified that the
                   property cannot be taken away from the idol and diverted to other
                   purposes without the consent of the idol through its earthly agents
      47 LR 4   IA 52 : ILR 2 Cal 233
      48 52   IA 245 : AIR 1925 PC 139
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          130
                   who, as guardians of the deity, cannot in law consent to anything
                   which may amount to an extinction of the deity itself.”



      69.       Recently, the Constitution Bench of this Court in M. Siddiq (dead)

      through LRs vs. Mahant Suresh Das and others (Ram Janmabhumi Temple

      Case)49 inter alia, dealt with the role and position of a shebait.                  After

      considering the decisions on the point, it was stated:-


                   “425. Courts recognise a Hindu idol as the material embodiment
                   of a testator’s pious purpose. Juristic personality can also be
                   conferred on a Swayambhu deity which is a self-manifestation in
                   nature. An idol is a juristic person in which title to the endowed
                   property vests. The idol does not enjoy possession of the property
                   in the same manner as do natural persons. The property vests in
                   the idol only in an ideal sense. The idol must act through some
                   human agency which will manage its properties, arrange for the
                   performance of ceremonies associated with worship and take
                   steps to protect the endowment, inter alia by bringing proceedings
                   on behalf of the idol. The shebait is the human person who
                   discharges this role.
                                                  … … …

                   429. The recognition of a person or a group of persons as shebaits
                   is a substantive conferment of the right to manage the affairs of
                   the deity. A necessary adjunct of the status of a shebait, is the
                   right to brings actions on the behalf of an idol and bind it and its
                   properties to the outcomes. The purpose for which legal
                   personality is conferred upon an idol as the material embodiment
                   of the pious purpose is protected and realised through the actions
                   of the human agent, that is, the shebait. The shebait is entrusted
                   with the power and the duty to carry out the purpose of the donor
                   in respect of the idol and its properties. In the vast majority of
                   cases, a shebait is appointed in accordance with the terms of a
                   deed of dedication by which property is endowed to an idol. It is
                   for the protection of this property that the law recognises either


      49 (2020) 1 SCC 1
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                              131
                   the donor or a person named in the deed of endowment as the
                   shebait. In the absence of an expressly appointed or identified
                   shebait, the law has ensured the protection of the properties of the
                   idol by the recognition of a de facto shebait. Where a person is in
                   complete and continuous management of the deity’s affairs
                   coupled with long, exclusive and uninterrupted possession of the
                   appurtenant property, such a person may be recognised as a
                   shebait despite the absence of a legal title to the rights of a shebait.
                   This will be adverted to in the course of the judgment.

                                                                       (Emphasis added)
                                                  … … …

                   434. In addition to the duties that must be discharged in relation
                   to the debutter property, a shebait may have an interest in the
                   usufruct of the debutter property. In this view, shebaitship is not
                   an office simpliciter, but is also property for the purposes of
                   devolution50. This view has been affirmed by this Court in
                   Angurbala Mullick v. Debabrata Mullick21. The controversy in
                   that case was whether the appellant, as the widow of the shebait,
                   was entitled to act as the shebait of the idol instead of the minor
                   son of the shebait born from his first marriage who was the
                   respondent. It was contended that the office of shebaitship would
                   devolve in accordance with the Hindu Women’s Right to Property
                   Act, 1937. B.K. Mukherjea, J. speaking for a four-Judge Bench
                   of this Court accepted this contention and held: (Angurbala
                   Mullick case21 (AIR p. 296, para 11).

                         “11. … But though a shebait is a manager and not a
                         trustee in the technical sense, it would not be correct to
                         describe the shebaitship as a mere office. The shebait
                         has not only duties to discharge in connection with the
                         endowment, but he has a beneficial interest in the
                         debutter property. As the Judicial Committee observed
                         in the above case, in almost all such endowments the
                         shebait has a share in the usufruct of the debutter
                         property which depends upon the terms of the grant or
                         upon custom or usage. Even where no emoluments are
                         attached to the office of the shebait, he enjoys some sort
                         of right or interest in the endowed property which

      50 Approved by the Privy Council in Ganesh Chunder Dhur v. Lal Behary Dhur, 1936 SCC

      OnLline PC 53 : (1935-36) 63 IA 448 and Bhabatarini Debi v. Ashalata Debi, 1943 SCC
      OnLine PC 1 : (1942-43) 70 IA 57
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           132
                         partially at least has the character of a proprietary right.
                         Thus, in the conception of shebaiti both the elements
                         of office and property, of duties and personal interest,
                         are mixed up and blended together; and one of the
                         elements cannot be detached from the other. It is the
                         presence of this personal or beneficial interest in the
                         endowed property which invests shebaitship with the
                         character of proprietary rights and attaches to it the
                         legal incidents of property.”


                   The Court held that a shebait has a beneficial interest in the
                   usufruct of the debutter property. This beneficial interest is in the
                   form of a proprietary right. Though the role of the shebait is
                   premised on the performance of certain duties for the idol and the
                   benefits are appurtenant, neither can be separated from the other.
                   Thus, office and property are both blended in shebaitship, the
                   personal interest of a shebait being appurtenant to their duties.51”



      70.       Reliance was however placed by Mr. Gupta, learned Senior Advocate

      on the decision of this Court in Tilkayat Shri Govindlalji Maharaj v. The State

      of Rajasthan and others52 to submit that mere right to manage the debutter

      property when no emoluments were being drawn by the Manager was not found

      to be protected under Articles 19(1)(f) and 31(2) of the Constitution of India by

      a Bench of five Judges of this Court.                     This Court, speaking through

      Gajendragadkar, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) had observed:-

                   “The temple of Shrinathji at Nathdwara holds a very high place
                   among the Hindu temples in this country and is looked upon with
                   great reverence by the Hindus in general and the Vaishnav
                   followers of Vallabha in particular. As in the case of other ancient

      51 Affirmed in Badri Nath v. Punna, (1979) 3 SCC 71: Profulla Chorone Requitte v. Satya

      Chorone Requitte, (1979) 3 SCC 409
      52 (1964) 1 SCR 561
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          133
                   revered Hindu temples, so in the case of the Shrinathji temple at
                   Nathdwara, mythology has woven an attractive web about the
                   genesis of its construction at Nathdwara. Part of it may be history
                   and part may be fiction, but the story is handed down from
                   generation to generation of devotees and is believed by all of them
                   to be true.

                                                … … …


                   The question as to whether a Hindu temple is private or public
                   has often been considered by judicial decision. A temple
                   belonging to a family which is a private temple is not unknown to
                   Hindu law. In the case of a private temple it is also not unlikely
                   that the religious reputation of the founder may be of such a high
                   order that the private temple founded by him may attract devotees
                   in large numbers and the mere fact that a large number of devotees
                   are allowed to worship in the temple would not necessarily make
                   the private temple a public temple. On the other hand, a public
                   temple can be built by subscriptions raised by the public and a
                   deity installed to enable all the members of the public to offer
                   worship. In such a case, the temple would clearly be a public
                   temple. Where evidence in regard to the foundation of the temple
                   is not clearly available, sometimes, judicial decisions rely on
                   certain other facts which are treated as relevant. Is the temple
                   built in such an imposing manner that it may prima facie appear
                   to be a public temple? The appearance of the temple of course
                   cannot be a decisive factor; at best it may be a relevant factor.
                   Are the members of the public entitled to an entry in the temple?
                   Are they entitled to take part in offering service and taking
                   Darshan in the temple? Are the members of the public entitled to
                   take part in the festivals and ceremonies arranged in the temple?
                   Are their offerings accepted as a matter of right? The
                   participation of the members of the public in the Darshan in the
                   temple and in the daily Acts of worship or in the celebration of
                   festival occasions may be a very important factor to consider in
                   determining the character of the temple….

                   …..If the temple is a public temple, under Hindu Law the idol of
                   Shrinathji is a juridical person and so, the ownership of the temple
                   and all its endowments including offerings made before the idol
                   constitute the property of the idol….

                                                  … … …
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           134
                   That takes us to the question as the nature and extent of the
                   Tilkayat’s rights in regard to the temple property. It is clear that
                   the Tilkayat never used any income from the property of the
                   temple for his personal needs or private purpose. It is true that
                   the learned Attorney General suggested that this consistent course
                   of conduct spreading over a large number of years was the result
                   of what he described as self-abnegation on the part of the tilkayats
                   from generation to generation and from Tilkayat’s point of view,
                   it can be so regarded because the Tilkayat thought and claimed
                   that the temple and his properties together constituted his private
                   property. But once we reach the conclusion that the temple is a
                   public temple and the properties belonging to it are the properties
                   of the temple over which the Tilkayat has no title or right, we will
                   have to take into account the fact that during the long course of
                   the management of this temple, the Tilkayat has never claimed
                   any proprietary interest to any part of the usufrcut of the
                   properties of the temple for his private personal needs, and so,
                   that proprietary interest of which Mr. Ameer Ali spoke in dealing
                   with the position of the Mahant and the Shebait and to which this
                   Court referred in the case of commissioner, Hindu Religious
                   endowments, Madras42 is lacking in the present case. What the
                   Tilkayat can claim is merely the right to manage the property, to
                   create lease in respect of the properties in a reasonable manner
                   and the theoretical right to alienate the property for the purpose
                   of the temple; and be it noted that these rights could be exercised
                   by the Tilkayat under the absolute and strict supervision of the
                   Darbar of Udaipur. Now, the right to manage the property
                   belonging to the temple, or the right to create a lease of the
                   property on behalf of the temple, or the right to alienate the
                   property for the purpose of the temple under the supervision of
                   the Darbar cannot, in our opinion, be equated with the totality of
                   the powers generally possessed by the Mahant or even the
                   Shebait, and so, we are not prepared to hold that having regard to
                   the character and extent of the rights which can be legitimately
                   claimed by the Tilkayat even on the basis that he was a Mahant
                   governed by the terms of the Firman, amount to a right to property
                   under Article 19(1)(f) or constitute property under Article 31(2).

                                                                     (Emphasis added)

                   Besides, we may add that even if it was held that these rights
                   constituted a right to hold property their regulation by the relevant
                   provisions of the Act would undoubtedly be protected by Art.
                   19(5). The temple is a public temple and what the legislature has
                   purported to do is to regulate the administration of the properties
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         135
                   of the temple by the Board of which the Tilkayat is and has to be
                   a member. Having regard to the large estate owned by the
                   Tilkayat and having regard to the very wide extent of the offerings
                   made to the temple by millions of devotees from day to day; the
                   legislature was clearly justified in providing for proper
                   administration of the properties of the temple. The restrictions
                   imposed by the Act must, therefore, be treated as reasonable and
                   in the interests of the general public.”



      71.       In the aforesaid case, this Court was called upon to consider the matter

      in the context of challenge to the Nathadwara Temple Act, 1959 (Rajasthan Act

      13 of 1959), inter alia, on the grounds that said Act violated the rights

      guaranteed under Articles 19(1)(f), 25(1), 26 (b) & (c) and 31(2) of the

      Constitution. The Act under challenge, enacted by the State, had sought to

      change the management which was earlier in the hands of the Tilkayat. On

      facts, it was noticed that the petitioner therein was appointed as Tilkayat

      (Manager of the Temple) under a Firman issued by the Rana of Udaipur on

      December 31, 1934 which provided that the Udaipur Darbar had absolute right

      to supervise that the property dedicated to the shrine was used for legitimate

      purpose and to take any measures for the management of the shrine. It was

      held by this Court that said Firman was law by which the affairs of said temple

      and succession to the office of the Tilkayat were governed after its issue. This

      Court thereafter held:-
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          136
                   “Having regard to the unambiguous and emphatic words used in
                   clause 1 of the Firman and having regard to other drastic
                   provisions contained in its remaining clauses, we are inclined to
                   think that this Firman made the Tilkayat for the time being a
                   Custodian, Manager and Trustee, and nothing more. As a
                   Custodian or Manager, he had the right to manage the properties
                   of the temple, subject, of course, to the overall supervision of the
                   Darbar, the right of the Darbar in that behalf being absolute. He
                   was also a Trustee of the said property and the word “trustee” in
                   the context must mean trustee in the technical legal sense. In
                   other words, it is not open to the Tilkayat to claim that he has
                   rights of a Mahant or a Shebait; his rights are now defined and he
                   cannot claim any higher rights after the Firman was issued.”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)

               In the backdrop of the finding that the Tilkayat could not claim rights

      of a Mahant or a Shebait, the challenge on the grounds that said Act violated

      the rights under the Constitution was negated.


               On the other hand, after considering the relevant decisions on the point,

      in Angurbala Mullick21, this Court had very clearly observed, that even where

      no emoluments are attached to the office of the shebait, he enjoys some sort of

      right or interest in the debutter property which partially has the character of a

      proprietary right. In the decision of a Bench of seven Judges in Shirur Mutt

      Case42 the decision in Angurbala Mullick21 was referred to with approval. In

      the recent decision of the Constitution Bench in M. Siddiq (Ram Janmabhumi

      Temple Case)49, the concerned portion from Angurbala Mullick21 was also

      quoted in paragraph 434.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           137

              In the premises, in our view, mere factum that no emoluments are

      attached to the office of the Shebait would not make any difference to the

      character of the right and interest of the Shebait. Though this conclusion is

      based on the decisions referred to above, reference may additionally be made

      to Para 5.5 of the Book titled “The Hindu Law of Religious Endowments and

      Charitable Trusts”, 4th Edition edited by Hon. P.B. Gajendragadkar, former

      Chief Justice of India, which points in the same direction.


      72.       The principles that emerge from the long line of decisions referred to

      in the preceding paragraphs can thus be summed up:-

                   (i) According to Hindu law, when the worship of a thakoor
                   has been founded, the Shebaitship is held to be vested in the
                   heirs of the founder, in default of evidence that he has
                   disposed of it otherwise, or there has been some usage, course
                   of dealing, or some circumstances to show a different mode
                   of   devolution.       (Gossamee        Sree     Greedharreejee   vs.
                   Rumanlolljee Gossamee24)


                   (ii) Unless the founder has disposed of the Shebaitship in any
                   particular manner - and this right of disposition is inherent in
                   the founder - or except when usage or custom of a different
                   nature is proved to exist, Shebaitship like any other species
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      138
                   of heritable property follows the line of inheritance from the
                   founder. (Angurbala Mullick vs. Debabrata Mullick21)


                   (iii) The legal character of a Shebait cannot be defined with
                   precision and exactitude. Broadly described, he is the human
                   ministrant and custodian of the idol, its earthly spokesman,
                   its authorised representative entitled to deal with all its
                   temporal affairs and to manage its property. As regards the
                   administration of the debutter, his position is analogous to
                   that of a trustee; yet, he is not precisely in the position of a
                   trustee in the English sense, because under Hindu Law,
                   property absolutely dedicated to an idol, vests in the idol, and
                   not in the shebait. (Profulla Chorone Requitte v. Satya
                   Chorone Requitte20)


                   (iv) Shebaitship in its true legal conception involves two
                   ideas: The ministrant of the deity and its manager; it is not a
                   bare office but an office together with certain rights attached
                   to it. (Monohar Mukherjee vs. Bhupendra Nath Mukherjee
                   and Ors.30)


                   (v) The effect of the decisions in Ganesh vs. Lal Behary31
                   and Bhaba Tarini Debi vs. Asha Lata Debi27 as the Privy
                   Council pointed out in the latter case, was to emphasise the
                   proprietary element in the Shebaiti right and to show that
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           139
                   though in some respects an anomaly, it was an anomaly to be
                   accepted as having been admitted into Hindu law from an
                   early     date.    (The      Commissioner,          Hindu   Religious
                   Endowments, Madras vs. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha
                   Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt42)


                   (vi) It is settled by the pronouncement of the Judicial
                   Committee in Vidya Varuti v. Balusami26 that the relation of
                   a Shebait in regard to debutter property is not that of a trustee
                   to trust property under the English law. (Angurbala Mullick
                   vs. Debabrata Mullick21)


                   (vii) In a Hindu religious endowment the entire ownership of
                   the dedicated property is transferred to the deity or the
                   institution itself as a juristic person and the Shebait or Mahant
                   is a mere manager. (Angurbala Mullick vs. Debabrata
                   Mullick21)


                   (viii) In the conception of Mahantship, as in Shebaitship, both
                   the elements of office and property, of duties and personal
                   interest are blended together and neither can be detached
                   from the other. The personal or beneficial interest of the
                   Mahant in the endowments attached to an institution is
                   manifested in his large powers of disposal and administration
                   and his right to create derivative tenures in respect to
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     140
                   endowed properties; and these and other rights of a similar
                   character invest the office of the Mahant with the character
                   of proprietary right which, though anomalous to some extent,
                   is still a genuine legal right. (The Commissioner, Hindu
                   Religious Endowments, Madras vs. Sri Lakshmindra
                   Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt42)


                   (ix) Even where no emoluments are attached to the office of
                   the Shebait, he enjoys some sort of right or interest in the
                   endowed property which partially at least has the character of
                   a proprietary right. Thus, in the conception of Shebait both
                   the elements of office and property, of duties and personal
                   interest, are mixed up and blended together; and one of the
                   elements cannot be detached from the other. It is the presence
                   of this personal or beneficial interest in the endowed property
                   which invests Shebaitship with the character of proprietary
                   rights and attaches to it the legal incidents of property.
                   (Angurbala Mullick vs. Debabrata Mullick21)


                   (x) Succession to Mahantship of a Math or religious
                   institutions is regulated by custom or usage of the particular
                   institution, except where a rule of succession is laid down by
                   the founder himself who created the endowment. (Sital Das
                   vs. Sant Ram and others43)
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    141
                   (xi) The rule of custom should prevail in all cases and if any
                   aberrations have to be corrected such correction must take us
                   in the direction of re-establishing the rule of custom. (His
                   Holiness Digya Darshan Rajendra Ram Doss v. Devendra
                   Doss45)


                   (xii) It is not open to the Court to lay down a new rule of
                   succession or to alter the rule of succession completely. (His
                   Holiness Digya Darshan Rajendra Ram Doss v. Devendra
                   Doss45)


                   (xiii) In the absence of an expressly appointed or identified
                   Shebait, the law has ensured the protection of the properties
                   of the idol by the recognition of a de facto Shebait. (M.
                   Siddiq through LRs vs. Mahant Suresh Das and others
                   (Ram Janmabhumi Temple Case)49


      73.       As laid down by this Court, when the idol is installed and the temple is

      constructed or an endowment is founded, the shebaitship is vested in the

      founder and unless the founder himself has disposed of the shebaitship in a

      particular manner or there is some usage or custom or circumstances showing

      a different mode of devolution, the shebaitship like any other species of

      heritable property follows the line of inheritance from the founder; and it is not
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      142
      open to the Court to lay down a new rule of succession or alter the rule of

      succession. It has also been laid down that the shebaitship has the elements of

      office and property, of duties and personal interest blended together and they

      invest the office of the shebait with the character of proprietary right. It has

      further been laid down that the shebait is the custodian of the idol, its earthly

      spokesman and the human ministrant; is entitled to deal with the temporal

      affairs and to manage the property of the idol; and even where no emoluments

      are attached to the office of the shebait, he has the right or interest in the

      endowed property which has the characteristics of a proprietary right.


              If the instant case is considered on the touchstone of these settled

      principles, it is clear that after the major fire that occurred in the year 1686, the

      Temple was reconstructed and a new idol was installed by the King of

      Travancore Shri Marthand Varma and since then right upto the day the

      Covenant was signed, the management of the Temple had always been with the

      Kings of Travancore. The shebaitship or the managership of the Temple passed

      on to the succeeding Kings, coming from the royal family of Travancore. This

      chain was unbroken till the then Ruler of Travancore signed the Covenant in

      May 1949.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    143
              It may be noted here that on 10.08.1947 a proclamation was issued by

      the Ruler declaring that in matters of succession to the Rulership and to the

      throne and for all other purposes, the royal family was governed by the

      Marumakkathayam law, as modified by the custom and usage of the royal

      family. In a matter raising issues of succession to certain properties of the Ruler

      of Travancore, this Court in Revathinnal Balagopala Varma13 had found that

      the devolution in the royal family was from Ruler to Ruler. The shebaitship of

      the Temple had also passed from Ruler to Ruler consistent with the principles

      of succession otherwise applicable to the royal family.


      74.       We must thus conclude that as on the day when the Covenant was

      entered into by the Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore, apart from

      other incidents which normally follow the rulership, he was holding the office

      of Shebait of the Temple and represented a continuous and unbroken line of

      successive Shebaits traced from the original founder; and being a Shebait of the

      Temple, he was having all the rights and interest as laid down by decisions

      referred to hereinabove.


      75.       The questions still remain whether the office of Shebaitship of the

      Temple was part of the duties of the Ruler purely in his capacity as a Ruler, and
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  144
      said office was an incident of his rulership, or such office was totally

      unconnected to and independent of the rulership. These questions will be

      considered along with other questions which arise for consideration in the next

      segment.



      B]        Effect of the Covenant that was entered into in May 1949


      76.       The Covenant, relevant parts of which are quoted in paragraph 11

      hereinabove, was entered into by the Maharajas of Travancore and Cochin for

      the formation of the United State of Travancore and Cochin and for purposes

      set out therein.

              A)        In terms of Article III, as from the appointed day, all rights,

      authority and jurisdiction belonging to “the Ruler” of either of the Covenanting

      States which appertained or were incidental to the Government of the respective

      States, vested in the United State. Similarly, all duties and obligations of “the

      Ruler” of either of the Covenanting States pertaining or incidental to the

      Government of that State devolved on the United State which would now be

      discharged by the United State.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                 145
              Thus, all functions of the Rulers of either of the Covenanting States

      concerning or related to the Government of that State stood vested in or

      devolved on the United State.

              B)        In terms of Article IV “the present Ruler” of Travancore would

      be Rajpramukh for the United State and would hold such office “during his

      lifetime”. In terms of Article VI, the executive authority of the United State

      would be exercised by the Rajpramukh subject to certain stipulations in said

      Article; as per Article VII, the Rajpramukh would be guided by the aid and

      advice of the Council of Ministers; while in terms of Article X, the Legislature

      for the United State would consist of the Rajpramukh and the Legislative

      Assembly. Article IX then obliged the Rajpramukh to execute, on behalf of

      the United State, an Instrument of Accession in accordance with the provisions

      of Section 6 of the Government of India Act, 1935. In terms of Article XXI,

      the Rulers of Travancore and Cochin would, however, continue to have and

      exercise their “present powers” of suspension, remission or commutation of

      death sentences.

              Thus, on the appointed day or the Covenant becoming effective, a new

      role or capacity, that of Rajpramukh of the United State, was assumed by the

      then Ruler of Travancore. No such role was contemplated for the then Ruler
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      146
      of Cochin. Their earlier capacities as the Rulers or Heads of the respective

      Covenanting States thus stood terminated, save and except what was stated in

      Article XXI, where they could still exercise their “present powers” of

      suspension, remission or commutation of death sentences.                 Though, as

      Rajpramukh, the then Ruler of Travancore would have executive authority over

      the United State which would include areas of the erstwhile Cochin State, his

      powers, in terms of Article XXI, were confined to the areas of the erstwhile

      Travancore State, while the then Ruler of Cochin, who was not given any

      function in the United State, would continue to have and exercise “present

      powers” under Article XXI in the areas of the erstwhile Cochin State.

              C)        Article XIV entitled the Ruler of each Covenanting State to

      receive Privy Purses from the revenue of the United State.             As regards the

      Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore, the entitlement was restricted to

      “the present Ruler”, and not to his successors. In terms of Article XV, the Ruler

      of each Covenanting State would be entitled to the full ownership, use and

      enjoyment of all private properties. As per Article XVI, the Ruler of each

      Covenanting State, as also the members of his family, would be entitled to all

      personal privileges, dignities and titles enjoyed by them, immediately before

      15.08.1947.       Article XVII assured that succession to the Gaddi of each
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  147
      Covenanting State and to the personal rights, privileges, dignities and titles of

      the Ruler would be in terms of law and custom.

              Apart from Article IV, the expression “the present Ruler” finds mention

      in Article XIV. Articles XIV, XV and XVI conferred certain other entitlements

      in favour of the Rulers of the Covenanting States and in some cases in favour

      of the members of family. The succession to the Gaddi and other incidents

      stipulated in Article XVII, would be governed in accordance with law and

      custom.

              D) Article VIII is of importance and significance for the present

      purposes. In terms of Sub-Article ‘a’, the obligation of the Covenanting State

      of Travancore to contribute from its general revenue a sum of Rs.50 lakhs every

      year to the Dewaswom Board, and a sum of Rs.1 lakh every year to Shri

      Pandaravaga would, after the Covenant, be the obligation of the United State.

      In terms of Sub-Article ‘b’, the administration of the Temple, Sri Pandaravaga

      properties and all other properties and funds of the Temple now vested in trust

      in the Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore and the sum of Rs.1 lakh

      transferred in terms of Sub-Article ‘a’ and Rs.5 lakhs contributed every year

      towards the expenditure of the Temple would be conducted subject to the

      control and supervision of the Ruler of Travancore by an Executive Officer
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   148
      appointed by him. In terms of Sub-Article ‘c’, the administration of the

      incorporated and unincorporated Devaswoms and of Hindu Religious

      Institutions and Endowments and all their properties and funds which were

      under the management of the Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore

      would stand transferred and vested in the Travancore Dewaswom Board. It

      further dealt with manner of apportionment of the contribution of Rs.50 lakhs

      as stipulated in Sub-Article ‘a’. In terms of Sub-Article ‘d’, the administration

      of the incorporated and unincorporated Dewaswoms and of Hindu Religious

      Institutions which were under the management of the Ruler of the Covenanting

      State of Cochin would vest in the Cochin Dewaswom Board. However, “the

      Ruler of Cochin” would continue to exercise regulation and control of all rituals

      and ceremonies in respect of two temples mentioned in the proviso. Sub

      Articles ‘e’ and ‘f’ thereafter dealt with compositions of the respective

      Dewaswom Boards.


      77.       Sub-Article ‘b’ of Article VIII used the expression “now vested in trust

      in the Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore” and thus acknowledged

      the factum that the administration in respect of the Temple, Sri Pandaravaga

      properties and all other properties and funds of the Temple was already vested

      in the Ruler of Covenanting State of Travancore. Sub-Article ‘b’ further
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   149
      contemplated that with effect from the appointed day, the administration of the

      Temple, Sri Pandaravaga properties and all other properties and funds of the

      Temple would be subject to the control and supervision of the “Ruler of

      Travancore”. This Sub-Article was the centre of debate and fulcrum of

      submissions by the learned counsel appearing for various parties.

                On one hand, the submissions on behalf of the appellants and the

      Intervenors supporting them, stressed the expression “now vested in trust”

      along with the other material on record to emphasize the acknowledged status

      of “the Ruler” as Shebait of the Temple as on the day the Covenant was entered

      into. They also relied upon the latter part of the Sub-Article to submit that such

      status remained unaffected and was certainly intended to be continued.

                On the other hand, the submissions on behalf of the State and private

      respondents sought to emphasize that the continuation of the status was in

      favour of “the Ruler” in his capacity as “the Ruler”.


      78.       According to the Covenant, insofar as the transfer of sovereign power

      and all incidental aspects connected therewith were concerned, the Ruler of the

      Covenanting State of Travancore was involved at two stages. Under the first

      stage, the transfer was contemplated from him in his capacity as the Head of

      the Covenanting State of Travancore in favour of the United State and under
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                 150
      the second stage as Rajpramukh of the United State he was obliged to execute

      an Instrument of Accession in terms of Article IX. On and with effect from the

      appointed day in terms of the Covenant, his role as the Head of the State of

      Travancore came to an end and he became the Rajpramukh of the United State,

      in whom certain powers and rights got vested by virtue of Articles VI, VII and

      X. Theoretically, as Rajpramukh, he could as well be vested with powers of

      suspension, remission or commutation of death sentences in respect of the

      entire area of the United State but the intent was to retain such powers in the

      erstwhile Ruler of Cochin State, who had no role in the new dispensation with

      respect to the United State and for this reason, Article XXI used the expression

      “the Rulers of Travancore and Cochin”. The fact that this was a departure and

      as an exception to the general mechanism is evident from the expression

      “Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding provisions of this

      Covenant”.        Therefore, despite generality of the earlier Articles of the

      Covenant, only with respect to matters specified in Article XXI, “the Ruler of

      Travancore” continued to have the powers which he was enjoying as the Head

      of the State of Travancore before the Covenant came into effect. Thus,

      wherever the Covenant wanted him to continue to exercise certain powers
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  151
      which as Head of the State of Travancore had resided or vested in him, the

      Covenant made an express exception and stipulated so.


      79.       What then would be the import of the expression “the Ruler of

      Travancore” in the latter part of Sub-Article ‘b’ of Article VIII is the question

      that needs to be addressed.

                A)      As discussed above, the only place in the Covenant where the

      person who signed as the Ruler of the Covenanting State would continue to

      enjoy his erstwhile powers as the Head of that Covenanting State, was Article

      XXI. The references as “the Ruler of the Covenanting State” and as the Ruler

      of Travancore or as “the Ruler of Cochin” in rest of the Articles, were only by

      way of reference to the person concerned, and not by way of reference to or

      because of his official capacity as the Ruler. This gets fortified by proviso to

      Sub-Article ‘d’ of Article VIII, in terms of which “the Ruler of Cochin” would

      continue to exercise regulation and control with respect to rituals and

      ceremonies in certain temples. Upon the Covenant coming into effect, he had

      lost his capacity as the Head of the erstwhile State of Cochin. Thus, the

      retention of the powers under said proviso in him was not because he had any

      official status as Head of the State after the appointed day in terms of the

      Covenant but only with a view to describe and locate the person concerned. A
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    152
      person answering the description in said proviso would continue to exercise

      such power. Similar thought can, therefore, be validly entertained that the

      description in the latter part of Sub-Article ‘b’ of Article VIII was only to refer

      to or locate the person.

                B)      Furthermore, the historical background and the association of the

      royal family with the Temple and the nature of Shebaitship held by a successive

      line of Rulers from time to time, were such that the Covenant designedly let the

      management of the affairs of the Temple – with the royal family, and in the

      hands of the Ruler of Travancore, principally because his official capacity or

      status as the erstwhile Head of the State apparently had nothing to do with the

      capacity as Shebait of the Temple.

                As discussed in the earlier segment, the Shebaitship was always in the

      royal family and the Ruler represented the unbroken line of Shebaits. Not only

      the excerpts from the book written by Mr. V.P. Menon indicate the deep sense

      of attachment and devotion of the ruling family to the Temple and Sri

      Padmanabhaswamy, but some reflection in that behalf is also to be noticed in

      the White Paper on the Indian States which was initially prepared in July 1948

      and updated in March 1950 by Government of India, Ministry of States. It dealt

      with the United State of Travancore and Cochin in paragraphs 139 to 145.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        153
      Paragraphs 141 and 142 dealt with Devaswoms-Hindu Temples and properties

      attached to them in the two States including that of the temple of Sri

      Padmanabhaswamy as under:-

                   “141. One of the special features of the Covenant is the
                   arrangement in respect of Devaswoms – Hindu temples – and
                   property attached to them in the two States including the temple
                   of Shri Padmanabhaswami the tutelary deity of the ruling family
                   of Travavancore. In Travancore alone, apart from this important
                   shrine, on the maintenance of which the State was spending over
                   Rs.1 million per annum, there are 348 major Devaswoms and
                   1123 minor Devaswoms. Large revenues are derived by the State
                   from the properties which were attached to these Devaswoms and
                   provision was made by the State for the maintenance of
                   Devaswoms, from time to time, at varying figures. Hindu opinion
                   in the State was unanimous that not only should the continued
                   payment of the existing allotments for the maintenance of
                   Devaswoms be guaranteed but that adequate compensation
                   should also be given in respect of the properties of the
                   Devaswoms taken over by the State since 1912, and the profits
                   derived from them. The annual contribution thus claimed ranged
                   from rupees ten to twenty millions. The Covenant now provides
                   for a fixed contribution of Rs.5.1 millions for the maintenance of
                   Devaswoms in Travancore out of which a sum of Rs.600,000 is
                   to be contributed towards the maintenance of the Shri
                   Padmanabhaswami temple.

                   142. The most important departure from the past practice, which
                   the provisions of the Covenant regarding the Devaswoms involve,
                   is that, except in the case of Shri Padmanabhaswami temple, in
                   the management of which the Ruler will be assisted by an
                   Advisory Committee, the administration of Devaswoms will vest
                   in two Boards to be set up in these States on which not only the
                   orthodox Hindus but the Harijans also will be represented. This
                   introduces a far-reaching temple reform in that under the
                   arrangement prescribed in the Covenant the Harijans will secure
                   a share both in the control of the temples and appointments in the
                   Devaswoms Department, a position hitherto denied to them.”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       154
              It may be mentioned here that said White Paper generally gave account

      of all such Covenants entered into by various Rulers of the erstwhile Indian

      States and except the Temple of Sri Padmanabhaswamy which was specifically

      dealt with in the Covenant that we are presently concerned with, no other

      temple in any such Indian State was so specifically and separately dealt with.

      In that sense, Article VIII of the Covenant has certain unique features.


      C)        The White Paper also set out, the Covenant entered into by the Rulers

      of Gwalior, Indore and certain other States in Central India for the formation of

      the United Madhya Bharat which in Sub-Article (2) of Article VII provided:-

                   “(2) Subject to any directions or instructions that may from time
                   to time be given by the Government of India in this behalf, the
                   authority –
                        (a) to make laws for the peace and good government of any
                            scheduled area,

                        (b) to raise, maintain and administer the military forces of
                            the United State, and

                        (c) to control the administration of the fund in Gwalior
                            known as the Gangajali Fund and of any other existing
                            fund of a similar character in any other Covenanting
                            State.
                   shall vest exclusively in the Raj Pramukh”



                The control and administration of the Fund known as Gangajali Fund

      and of any other existing fund of a similar character in any other Covenanting
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           155
      State thus vested exclusively in the Raj Pramukh.                      The White Paper in

      paragraph 159 (iv) described Gangajali Fund as under:-

                   “(iv) Gangajali Fund. - This Fund, which has a corpus of
                   Rs.16,237,000/- was created by the Scindias as a special reserve
                   fund for use during grave emergency such as famine. His
                   Highness the Maharaja of Gwalior has made this fund available
                   for public benefit. Subject to any instructions or directions from
                   the Government of India, the authority to control and administer
                   the fund is vested in the Rajpramukh of Madhya Bharat.”



                In terms of aforestated Article VII (2) the vesting was in favour of the

      Raj Pramukh, and not in favour of any concerned Ruler. The Raj Pramukh, in

      terms of Article III of said Covenant was to be elected by the Council of Rulers.

      Consequently, though Gangajali Fund was constituted by the then Maharaja of

      Gwalior, the control was not vested in the Ruler of Gwalior, but in the Raj

      Pramukh. This also meant that the vesting was in his official capacity as Raj

      Pramukh, who could be any other Ruler, and not strictly the Ruler of Gwalior.


               The Madhya Bharat Gangajali Fund Trust Act, 1954 was thereafter

      enacted. In terms of Section 6 of said Act, the properties comprising of the

      Gangajali Fund vested in the Trustees. In accordance with Section 4 as it

      originally stood, the Rajpramukh, the Chief Minister of the State, and a

      nominee of the Rajpramukh were designated Trustees. Later there were

      amendments to this Section. Section 7 stipulated that the income from the Fund
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   156
      be released for schemes relating to (a) relief of famine; (b) medical relief; and

      (c) education.        The Act was repealed in 2003 and after discharging the

      liabilities of the Trust, the residue was directed to be applied to three

      educational institutions.


               Article VII (2) of said Covenant and the consequential legislation are

      clear indication that even where a Trust was constituted for certain charitable

      purposes by the then Maharaja of Gwalior, the administration of such Trust was

      not vested in the Ruler of Gwalior. On the other hand, the Trust, in terms of the

      Covenant itself, was directed to be vested in the Raj Pramukh in his official

      capacity.


               In comparison, the vesting of administration of the Temple in the instant

      case was not only acknowledged by the Covenant to be in trust with the Ruler

      of the Covenanting State of Travancore but such administration was to continue

      subject to the control and supervision of “the Ruler of Travancore” even after

      the Covenant.        This illustration further emphasizes that “the control and

      supervision” of the Ruler of Travancore was not in any official capacity.


      D)        It is also pertinent to note here that other Devaswoms and Endowments

      in the erstwhile State of Travancore also used to be under the control of the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                157
      erstwhile Ruler of Travancore. Going by the Travancore Interim Constitution

      Act which is referred to in detail in paragraph 10 hereinabove, though such

      control was to be retained by the ruling family, the Covenant expressed clearly

      to the contrary.           Sub-Article ‘c’ of Article VIII acknowledged that

      administration with respect to said other Devaswoms and Endowments and

      other properties was earlier under the management of the Ruler of the

      Covenanting State of Travancore. It, however, stated that with effect from the

      appointed day in terms of the Covenant, such management would now vest in

      Travancore Devaswom Board. This part also finds mention in the relevant

      paragraphs of the White Paper as quoted above.


              Thus, wherever the official capacity of the Head of the State was

      responsible for enabling the Ruler to be in charge of the management or

      administration, upon ceasing to have such capacity, the erstwhile Ruler would

      have nothing to do with the management of such other Devaswoms or

      Endowments. In contrast, the case with respect to the Temple and other

      properties referred to in Sub-Article ‘b’ stands on a completely different

      footing.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   158
              In the premises, it must be held that the expression “the Ruler of

      Travancore” used in the latter part of Sub-Article ‘b’ of Article VIII was only

      by way of reference and the purport of said Sub-Article was not to invest the

      said authority and power because he was the Ruler or enjoyed and represented

      any official status.


      80)       A subsidiary issue still needs to be dealt with, and that is whether the

      references in said Article were only to the person who was the Ruler at the time

      the Covenant was entered into and would not include successors to said Ruler.

                The survey of the concerned Articles of the Covenant as set out in

      paragraph 11 hereinabove shows that wherever special attributes or rights were

      designed to be conferred upon and restricted to “the present Ruler”, the

      Covenant was quite specific. Articles IV and XIV are clear instances in that

      behalf. On the other hand, whenever the person, who as the Ruler, had signed

      the Covenant was to be referred, the expressions used in the Covenant had been

      “the Ruler of the Covenanting State” or “the Ruler of Travancore”. These

      expressions were only to identify the person who was the Ruler as stated earlier.

      Thus, the rights such as the entitlements to Privy Purses and the ownership, use

      and enjoyment of private properties and so also to personal rights, privileges,

      titles and dignities were concerned, they were assured to “the Ruler of the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     159
      Covenanting State”.          In addition, certain rights were also granted to the

      members of the family and succession to the Gaddi, personal rights and

      privileges was expressly assured. Whether those rights or entitlements were

      intended to be enjoyed by the successor to the person who signed the Covenant,

      would depend upon the nature and content of such right or entitlement. In so

      far as the right with respect to Privy Purse payable to the Ruler of Travancore

      was concerned, it was expressly limited or confined to “the present Ruler”, and

      obviously no successor could claim such entitlement. But rest of the incidents

      or entitlements referred to in said Articles were without such restriction.

      Additionally, once succession to the Gaddi of each Covenanting State and to

      the personal rights and privileges etc. was guaranteed in accordance with law

      and custom by Article XVII, these incidents were designed to be available for

      enjoyment by the succeeding generations or successors according to law and

      custom. If the matter is considered purely from the perspective of Shebaitship

      of the Temple, or the right of administration referred to in the latter part of Sub-

      Article ‘b’ of Article VIII, going by the general law of Shebaitship as discussed

      in the earlier segment, and the succession according to law and custom, every

      successor to the Ruler who signed the Covenant would be entitled to such right.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         160
      There is nothing in any of the Articles which even purports to limit or restrict

      such devolution.



      81.       In the circumstances, it must be concluded that Article VIII of the

      Covenant not only acknowledged and accepted the factum that the

      administration with respect to the Temple, its properties, as well as with respect

      to Pandaravaga properties, had already vested in “the Ruler of the Covenanting

      State of Travancore”, but the said Article expressly continued the same status

      and stipulated that such administration shall be conducted subject to the

      supervision and control of “the Ruler of Travancore”, the meaning of which

      expression has already been dealt with and deduced earlier.


      C]     Effect of the Constitution of India as it stood before the
      Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971 and of the provisions
      of TC Act


      82.       We now consider the effect of the Constitution of India on the status

      and entitlement of the Ruler of Travancore to the Shebaitship of the Temple.

                Article 29153 of the Constitution of India dealt with Privy Purses

      payable to the Rulers and stipulated that if under any covenant or agreement



      53   The Article was repealed by the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                        161
      entered into by the Ruler of any Indian State, any sums were guaranteed or

      assured by the Government of the Dominion of India to be paid as Privy Purse,

      the sums in that behalf would be charged on and paid out of the Consolidated

      Fund of India and that the sums so paid to any Ruler would be exempt from all

      taxes on income. Article 36253 of the Constitution of India stipulated that in

      the exercise of the power of Parliament, or of the Legislature of a State, to make

      laws or in the exercise of their respective executive powers, due regard shall be

      had to the guarantee or the assurance given under any such covenant or

      agreement, as was referred to in Article 291 of the Constitution of India, with

      respect to personal rights, privileges and dignities of the Ruler of an Indian

      State.

                Article 366(22)54 defined the expression “Ruler” to mean, inter alia,

      one who had signed the Covenant referred to in Article 291 and who, for the

      time being, was recognized by the President of India to be the Ruler of that

      State and would include successor to such Ruler. It may be stated here that

      there is no dispute that the Ruler of Travancore who signed the Covenant was

      recognized by the President of India to be the Ruler of Travancore. Article 363,




      54 As it stood before it was amended by the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act,

      1971
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  162
      which has remained unamended, speaks of “Bar to interference by Courts in

      disputes arising out of certain treaties, agreements etc.”


      83.       Soon thereafter, the TC Act came into force. The relevant provisions

      of the TC Act have already been extracted earlier. Chapter III of the TC Act

      specifically dealt with Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple and matters pertaining

      to the administration of the Temple. Said Chapter III of the TC Act is consistent

      with the latter part of Sub-Article ‘b’ of Article VIII of the Covenant and

      stipulates inter alia that the administration of the Temple, Sri Pandaravaga

      properties and all other properties and funds of the Temple “vested in trust in

      the Ruler of Travancore” and the sum of Rs.6 lakhs contributed in terms of Sub-

      Section 1 of Section 18 of the TC Act shall be conducted, “subject to the control

      and supervision of the Ruler of Travancore” by an Executive Officer appointed

      by him. Said Chapter III did not confer any right or benefit for the first time,

      where none existed earlier but gave statutory recognition to what was

      acknowledged and accepted in the latter part of Sub-Article ‘b’ of Article VIII

      of the Covenant to be the continuing status. Section 20 of the TC Act then deals

      with the constitution of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple Committee, which is

      also in tune with said Article VIII of the Covenant.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                 163
                Two features must be noticed at this stage. Insofar as incorporated or

      unincorporated Devaswoms are concerned, consistent with the stipulations of

      Sub-Article ‘c’ of Article VIII of the Covenant, the control and administration

      in respect of such Devaswoms is vested in Travancore Devaswom Board as

      stated in Section 15 of the TC Act. There are certain machinery provisions

      which deal with the manner in which the affairs of the Devaswom Board would

      be conducted, with which we are not presently concerned. Secondly, Sub-

      Section 2 of Section 62 of the TC Act, in tune with proviso to Sub-Article ‘d’

      of Article VIII of the Covenant provides that despite the vesting of

      administration in Cochin Devaswom Board, the regulation and control of rituals

      and ceremonies in the temples referred to therein would continue to be

      exercised by the Ruler of Cochin. Thus, all material and relevant facets

      emanating from various provisions of the Covenant pertaining to the

      administration of the Temple, Sri Pandaravaga properties and all other

      properties of the Temple, so also, the management and control of all other

      Devaswoms and religious endowments were dealt with by the TC Act in a

      manner which was completely consistent with the relevant provisions contained

      in the Covenant.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          164
      84.       As stated in paragraph 16 hereinabove, orders passed by the President

      of India that Rulers of Indian States had ceased to be recognized as Rulers of

      respective Indian States were under challenge in Madhav Rao Scinda12, in

      which case the issues regarding the impact of Articles 291, 362, 363 and

      366(22) of the Constitution as well as the effect of legislative measures brought

      in pursuance of the provisions of Article 362 were considered by this Court.


                With regard to the nature of Privileges enjoyed by the Rulers

      Hidayatullah, C.J., in his opinion stated:-


                   “23. The Privileges of the Rulers included many items. A
                   memorandum on these privileges was issued by the Ministry of
                   States in 1949. It did not contain an exhaustive list but was drawn
                   up to inform Provincial and Union Governments about them. It
                   contained an itemised list of 34 Privileges. They included several
                   exemptions from the operation of Indian Laws, the enjoyment of
                   Jagir and personal property of the Rulers and members of their
                   families, the payment by the States of the marriage expenses of
                   the brothers and sisters of the Rulers, immunity from some
                   processes of courts of law, immunity from requisitioning of the
                   private properties of the Rulers and their families and so on and
                   so forth. During the negotiations letters were written to the Rulers
                   to assure them that the Privy Purse was fixed in perpetuity and the
                   freedoms enjoyed by them would be continued.”


                As regards ‘recognition of a Ruler’ under Article 366(22) the learned

      Chief Justice observed:

                   “53. …. The obligation to recognise a Ruler is bound up with the
                   other guarantees contained in Articles 291 and 362. The definition
                   in Article 366(22) is merely the key to find a particular Ruler……
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          165

                                              …     …      …

                   72 …This Article renders the certainty of assumption of
                   Rulership to depend upon recognition and that recognition is
                   worked out primarily under Covenants and Agreements. The
                   dominant and immediate purpose and application of the Article
                   depends upon Covenants and Agreements. I have earlier said that
                   the President in recognising a Ruler or withdrawing his
                   recognition does not act arbitrarily but in the light of Covenants
                   and Agreements. All such instruments mention law and custom
                   of the family except the Bhopal Agreement where a local statute
                   has to be observed. The selection of a Ruler’s successor thus has
                   to be worked out under a Covenant or Agreement. The Article,
                   therefore, has for its dominant purpose the selection of Rulers
                   through the application of the Covenants and Agreements.”

                The learned Chief Justice then concluded

                   “77. My conclusions on Articles 291, 362 and 366(22) are that
                   Article 291 is not a provision relating to Covenants and
                   Agreements but a special provision for the source of payment of
                   Privy Purses by charging them on the Consolidated Fund and for
                   making the payment free of taxes on income. It does not in its
                   dominant purpose and theme answer the description in the latter
                   part of Article 363. Article 362 is within the bar of Article 363
                   because its dominant purpose is to get recognised the Covenants
                   and Agreements with Rulers. However, in so far as the same
                   guarantees find place in legislative measures the provisions of
                   Article 362 need not be invoked and the dispute decided on the
                   basis of those statutes. Such a case may not attract Article 362 and
                   consequently the bar of Article 363 may not also apply. Article
                   366(22) is within the description so long as the President in
                   recognising a Ruler or a successor is effectuating the provisions
                   of a Covenant or Agreement. It may apply when the discretion
                   exercised is relatable to his powers flowing from the Covenants
                   read with the article. However where the President acts wholly
                   outside the provisions of Article 366(22) his action can be
                   questioned because the bar applies to bona fide and legitimate
                   action and not to ultra vires actions.”
                                                                    (emphasis added)
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            166
                The majority judgment was authored by Shah, J. (as the learned Chief

        Justice then was). With regard to Articles 291 and 362, it was observed:-


                   “126. Even after the integration of States, the obligations under
                   the covenants were to be met out of the revenues of the respective
                   States. The covenants and the various stages through which
                   ultimate integration was achieved probably remained Acts of
                   State. The rights and obligations accruing or arising under those
                   acts of State could be enforced only if the Union of India had
                   accepted those rights and obligations. After the Constitution the
                   obligation to pay the privy purse rested upon the Union of India,
                   not because it was inherited from the Dominion of India, but
                   because of the constitutional mandate under Article 291. The
                   source of the obligation was in Article 291, and not in the
                   covenants and the agreements. Reference to the covenants and
                   agreements in Article 291 was for defining the privy purse: the
                   obligations of the Provinces in respect of the “Provincially
                   merged States”, and obligation of the Union of States in respect
                   of the States merged in such Unions, ceased by recognition to
                   retain their original character. The obligation which arose out of
                   the merger agreement and was on that account an act of State shed
                   its original character on acceptance by the Constitution. The
                   entity obliged to pay the privy purse did not after the Constitution
                   remain the same, the source out of which the obligation was to be
                   satisfied was not the original source; the incident relating to
                   exemption from payment of tax was vitally altered, and the
                   amount also was in some cases different. Whereas the liability to
                   pay the privy purse to the Rulers under the merger agreements
                   was assured by the Dominion Government, the Constitution
                   imposed upon the Union Government a directive to pay the privy
                   purse.
                                                                    (Emphasis added)
                                                 … … …

                   129. The structure of Article 362 is somewhat different. That
                   Article imposes restrictions upon the exercise of legislative and
                   executive functions. Recognition of the personal rights and
                   privileges of the Rulers arising out of the covenants is not explicit,
                   but the injunction that in the exercise of legislative and executive
                   power due regard shall be had to the guarantees, clearly implies
                   acceptance and recognition of the personal rights, privileges and
                   dignities. The Constitution thereby affirms the binding force of
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           167
                   the guarantees and assurances under the covenants of personal
                   rights, privileges and dignities, but unlike the guarantee of
                   payment of the privy purse in Article 291, the guarantee under
                   Article 362 is of the obligation under the original covenants and
                   agreements executed by the Rulers, barring those regarding which
                   there is express legislation enacted to give effect to certain
                   personal rights and privileges e.g., Income Tax Acts, 1922 and
                   1961, Wealth Tax Act, 1957, Gift Tax Act, 1958, notifications
                   under the Sea Customs Act, 1878, Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
                   and Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898. A Ruler seeking to
                   enforce privileges which parliamentary statutes have recognised
                   relies for right to relief upon the mandate of the statutes, and not
                   of the covenant.”
                                                                    (Emphasis added)

        The majority Judgment went on to observe: -

                   “134. In dealing with the dimensions of exclusion of the exercise
                   of judicial power under Article 363, it is necessary to bear in mind
                   certain broad considerations. The proper forum under our
                   Constitution for determining a legal dispute is the Court which is
                   by training and experience, assisted by properly qualified
                   advocates, fitted to perform that task. A provision which purports
                   to exclude the jurisdiction of the Courts in certain matters and to
                   deprive the aggrieved party of the normal remedy will be strictly
                   construed, for it is a principle not to be whittled down that an
                   aggrieved party will not, unless the jurisdiction of the Courts is
                   by clear enactment or necessary implication barred, be denied his
                   right to seek recourse to the Courts for determination of his rights.
                   The Court will interpret a statute as far as possible, agreeably to
                   justice and reason and that in case of two or more interpretations,
                   one which is more reasonable and just will be adopted, for there
                   is always a presumption against the law maker intending injustice
                   and unreason. The Court will avoid imputing to the Legislature
                   an intention to enact a provision which flouts notions of justice
                   and norms of fair play, unless a contrary intention is manifest
                   from words plain and unambiguous. The provision in a statute
                   will not be construed to defeat its manifest purpose and general
                   values which animate its structure. In an avowedly democratic
                   polity, statutory provisions ensuring the security of fundamental
                   human rights including the right to property will be, unless the
                   contrary mandate precise and unqualified, be construed liberally
                   so as to uphold the right. These rules apply to the interpretation
                   of constitutional and statutory provisions alike.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            168

                                              …     …     …

                   136. Jurisdiction to try a proceeding is barred under the first limb
                   of Article 363 if the dispute arises out of the provision of a
                   covenant: it is barred under the second limb of Article 363 if the
                   Court holds that the dispute is with respect to a right arising out
                   of a provision of the Constitution relating to a covenant. A dispute
                   that an order of an executive body is unauthorised, or a legislative
                   measure is ultra vires, is not one arising out of any covenant under
                   the first limb of Article 363, merely because the order or the
                   measure violates the rights of the citizen which, but for the act or
                   measure, were not in question. The dispute in such a case relates
                   to the validity of the act or the vires of the measure. Exclusion of
                   the Court’s jurisdiction by the terms of the relevant words lies in
                   a narrow field. If the constitutional provision relating to a
                   covenant is the source of the right claimed to accrue, or liability
                   claimed to arise, then clearly under the second limb the
                   jurisdiction of the Court to entertain a dispute arising with respect
                   to the right or obligation is barred. We need in the present case
                   express no opinion on the question whether a dispute that an
                   executive act or legislative measure operating upon a right
                   accruing or liability arising out of a provision is invalid falls
                   within the second limb of Article 363. We do not therefore
                   pronounce upon the argument of Mr Palkhivalla that the dispute
                   whether the recognition of a Ruler is withdrawn without authority
                   of law is not excluded from the jurisdiction of the Courts, because
                   it is not a dispute with respect to a right accruing under a provision
                   of the Constitution.
                                                                       (emphasis added)
                                                … … …

                   138. Article 366(22) is, in our judgment, a provision relating to
                   recognition of Rulers: that is the direct and only purpose of the
                   provision. It is not a provision relating to a covenant. The
                   qualification of a person being recognized as a Ruler is
                   undoubtedly that he is a Prince, Chief or other person who had
                   entered into a covenant or agreement as is referred to in Article
                   291, or that he is the successor to such a Ruler. Reference to the
                   covenant or the agreement of the nature mentioned in Article 291
                   is for determining who may be recognized as a Ruler. Because of
                   that reference the provision enacted with the object of conferring
                   authority upon the President to recognize a Ruler, will not be
                   deemed one relating to the covenant or agreement.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          169

                                              …     …     …

                   143. The source of the right to receive the Privy Purse is for
                   reasons already stated the constitutional mandate: it is not in the
                   covenant. Reference to the covenant in Article 291 merely
                   identifies the sum payable as Privy Purse: it does not make Article
                   291 a provision relating to the covenant. A dispute as to the right
                   to receive the Privy Purse, is therefore, not a dispute arising out
                   of the covenant within the first limb of Article 363, nor is it a
                   dispute with regard to a right accruing or obligation arising out of
                   a provision of the Constitution relating to a covenant.”

                                                                      (emphasis added)

               K.S. Hegde, J. in his opinion stated:-

                   “209. Article 363 has two parts: the first part deals with disputes
                   arising out of any provisions of a treaty, agreement or covenant,
                   etc. and the second part with dispute in respect of any right
                   accruing under or any liability or obligation arising out of any of
                   the provisions of the Constitution, relating to any such treaty,
                   agreement, covenant, engagement, Sanad or other similar
                   instrument.

                   210. Dealing with Articles 362 and 363 this is what the White
                   Paper says in para 240 (at p. 125):

                         “Guarantees regarding rights and privileges.—
                         Guarantees have been given to the Rulers under the
                         various agreements and covenants for the
                         continuation of their rights, dignities and privileges.
                         The rights enjoyed by the Rulers vary from State to
                         State and are exercisable both within and without the
                         states. They cover a variety of matters ranging from
                         the use of the red plates on cars to immunity from
                         Civil and Criminal jurisdiction and exemptions from
                         customs duties, etc. Even in the past it was neither
                         considered desirable nor practicable to draw up an
                         exhaustive list of all these rights. During the
                         negotiations following the introduction of the scheme
                         embodied in the Government of India Act, 1935, the
                         Crown Department had taken the position that no
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            170
                         more could be done in respect of the rights and
                         privileges enjoyed by the Rulers than a general
                         assurance of the intention of the Government of India
                         to continue them. Obviously, it would have been a
                         source of perpetual regret if all these matters had been
                         made as justiciable. Article 363 has, therefore been
                         embodied in the Constitution which excludes
                         specifically the Agreements of Merger and the
                         covenants from the jurisdiction of Courts except in
                         cases which may be referred to the Supreme Court by
                         the President. At the same time, the Government of
                         India considered it necessary that constitutional
                         recognition should be given to the guarantees and
                         assurances which the Government of India have given
                         in respect of the rights and privileges of Rulers. This
                         is contained in Article 362, which provides that in the
                         exercise of their legislative and executive authority,
                         the legislative and executive organs of the Union and
                         States will have due regard to the guarantees given to
                         the Rulers with respect to their personal rights,
                         privileges and dignities.”

                                              …     …     …

                   212. As seen earlier Article 363 has two parts. The first part
                   relates to disputes arising out of Agreements and Covenants etc.
                   The jurisdiction of this Court as well as of other Courts is clearly
                   barred in respect of disputes falling within that part. Then comes
                   the second part of Article 363, which refers to disputes in respect
                   of any right accruing under or any liability or obligation arising
                   out of any of the provisions of the Constitution relating to any
                   agreement, covenant etc. We are concerned with this part of
                   Article 363. Before a dispute can be held to come within the scope
                   of that part, that dispute must be in respect of a right accruing
                   under or the liability or obligation arising out of a provision of the
                   Constitution and that provision of the Constitution must relate to
                   agreements, covenants etc.

                   213. The principal dispute with which we are concerned in these
                   cases is whether the President has the power to abolish all Rulers
                   under Article 366 (22). Quite plainly this dispute cannot be held
                   to be dispute in respect of a right accruing or a liability or
                   obligation arising under any provision of the Constitution. Herein
                   we are not concerned with any right, liability or obligation. We
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           171
                   are concerned with powers of the President under Article 366(22).
                   What is in dispute is the true scope of the power of the President
                   under Article 366(22). That dispute does not fall within Article
                   363. Power is not the same thing as right. Power is an authority
                   whereas a right in the context in which it is used in Article 363,
                   signifies property. The fact that the Court’s decision about the
                   scope of the power of the President under Article 366(22) may
                   incidentally bear on certain rights does not make the dispute, a
                   dispute relating to any right accruing under any provision of the
                   Constitution. A dispute as regards the interpretation of a provision
                   of the Constitution is not a dispute within the contemplation of
                   the second part of Article 363 as it is not a dispute in respect of
                   any right, liability or obligation. The contention of the petitioners
                   is that the impugned orders are ultra vires the powers of the
                   President, hence null and void. Such a dispute does not come
                   within Article 363.”



      85.       Hidayatulla, C.J., found Article 291 to be a special provision for the

      source of payment of Privy Purses and the same thought was expressed in

      paragraph 126 by the majority Judgment which also found the structure of

      Article 362 to be different. Unlike Article 291, which itself was the source for

      payment of Privy Purses, Article 362 stipulated that due regard shall be had to

      the guarantees or assurances given under any covenant or agreement while

      exercising legislative or executive power. Thus, the source for enjoyment of

      personal rights, privileges and dignities referred to in Article 362 would be in

      the statutory provisions enacted in terms of the obligation spelt out in Article

      362. To the extent any legislative measure was undertaken, or executive power
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                172
      was exercised, with due regard to the guarantees or assurances given under any

      covenant or agreement, the source would be in such measure or exercise.


      86.       Insofar as the present segment is concerned, it must, therefore, be

      concluded that the relevant provisions of the Constitution of India as well as

      that of the TC Act did not, in any way, upset or abridge the status enjoyed by

      the Ruler of Travancore as Shebait of the Temple and also did not, in any

      manner, adversely impact the right of administration vested in the Ruler of

      Travancore. As a matter of fact, the relevant provisions of the TC Act afforded

      statutory flavour to the status contemplated by Article VIII of the Covenant.

                The submission that by virtue of Article 363 of the Constitution, the

      present dispute could not be entertained shall be considered later.


      D]        Effect of the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971

      87.       The Statement of Objects and Reasons as well as the nature of this

      Constitutional Amendment; the newly incorporated Article 363A and the

      amended definition of Ruler in Article 366(22) have been set out in paragraph

      17 hereinabove. As the Statement of Objects and Reasons indicated, the

      concept of rulership with Privy Purses and special privileges was found to be

      incompatible with egalitarian social order and as such it was decided to
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    173
      terminate the Privy Purses and privileges of the Rulers so also it was decided

      to terminate expressly the recognition already granted to such Rulers and to

      abolish Privy Purses and extinguish all rights and obligations in respect of Privy

      Purses. This Constitutional Amendment deleted Articles 291 and 362; and

      inserted Article 363A which now expressly stipulates inter alia that any person

      who was recognized to be the Ruler of an Indian State or his Successor, shall,

      cease to be recognized, as such Ruler or Successor, and all rights, liabilities and

      obligations in respect of Privy Purses stand extinguished. Article 366(22) was

      also accordingly amended and in terms of the amended definition, “Ruler” now

      means, inter alia, the person who was recognized as the Ruler of an Indian State

      or as a successor to such Ruler, before the commencement of said

      Constitutional Amendment. With the deletion of Article 291, the rights,

      liabilities and obligations with respect to Privy Purses stood extinguished. The

      guiding principles emanating from Article 362 that in exercise of legislative or

      executive power, due regard shall be had to the guarantee or assurance given in

      any Covenant or agreement referred to in Article 291 also ceased to exist.


      88.       Before we consider the impact of said Constitutional Amendment, we

      must note how the challenge raised by the co-Ruler of Indian State of

      Kurundwad Jr. and successor to the late Ruler of Indian State of Mysore to said
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          174
      Constitutional Amendment was dealt with by the Constitution Bench of this

      Court in Raghunathrao Ganpatrao14. At the outset, in para 36 of the leading

      judgment it was observed:


                   “36. We are not concerned about the particulars of the agreements
                   executed by other Rulers of various States.”


                Pandian, J. who authored the leading Judgment, referred to antecedent

      facts starting from the Constitution (24th Amendment) Bill, 1970 as well as the

      challenge raised in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia12 as follows:-

                   “38. On May 14, 1970, the Constitution (Twenty-fourth
                   Amendment) Bill, 1970 for abolition of the above said privy
                   purse, privileges etc. conferred under Articles 291, 362 and
                   366(22) was introduced in the Lok Sabha by the then Finance
                   Minister, Shri Y.B. Chavan. The Bill contained three clauses and
                   a short Statement of Objects and Reasons. The statement reads
                   thus:

                        “The concept of rulership, with Privy Purses and
                        Special Privileges unrelated to any current functions
                        and social purposes, is incompatible with an
                        egalitarian social order. Government have, therefore,
                        decided to terminate the Privy Purses and Privileges of
                        the Rulers of former Indian States. Hence this Bill.”

                   39. On September 2, 1970 the Bill was voted upon in the Lok
                   Sabha. But on September 5, 1970 the Rajya Sabha rejected the
                   same since the Bill failed in the Rajya Sabha to reach the requisite
                   majority of not less than two-third members present as required
                   by Article 368 and voting. Close on the heels of the said rejection,
                   the President of India purporting to exercise his powers under
                   clause (22) of Article 366 of the Constitution, signed an Order
                   withdrawing recognition of all the Rulers in the country en masse.
                   A communication to this effect was sent to all the Rulers in India
                   who had been previously recognised as Rulers.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         175

                   40. This Presidential Order de-recognising the Rulers was
                   questioned in Madhav Rao Scindia v. Union of India12 by filing
                   writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution challenging it
                   as unconstitutional, ultra vires and void. An eleven-Judge Bench
                   of this Court by its judgment dated December 15, 1970 struck
                   down the Presidential Order being illegal, ultra vires and
                   inoperative on the ground that it had been made in violation of the
                   powers of the President of India under Article 366(22) of the
                   Constitution and declared that the writ petitioners would be
                   entitled to all their pre-existing rights and privileges including
                   right to privy purses as if the impugned orders therein had not
                   been passed. Here, it may be noted that Mitter and Ray, JJ. gave
                   their dissenting judgment.”



                While dealing with the decision in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia12 it

      was observed:-

                   “60. So far as Article 362 is concerned, it has been held by
                   majority of the Judges that the said article is plainly a provision
                   relating to covenants within the meaning of Article 363 and a
                   claim to enforce the rights, privileges and dignities under the
                   covenants therefore, are barred by the first limb of Article 363
                   and a claim to enforce the recognition of rights and privileges
                   under Article 362 are barred under the second limb of Article 363
                   and that the jurisdiction of the courts however, is not excluded
                   where the relief claimed is founded on a statutory provision
                   enacted to give effect to personal rights under Article 362.”

                                                                     (Emphasis added)
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           176
        The leading Judgment thereafter observed: -

                   “74. The agreements entered into by the Rulers of the States with
                   the Government of India were simple documents relating to the
                   accession and the integration and the “assurances and guarantees”
                   given under those documents were only for the fixation of the
                   privy purses and the recognition of the privileges. The guarantees
                   and the assurances given under the Constitution were independent
                   of those documents. After the advent of the Constitution, the
                   Rulers enjoyed their right to privy purses, private properties and
                   privileges only by the force of the Constitution and in other
                   respects they were only ordinary citizens of India like any other
                   citizen; of course, this is an accident of history and with the
                   concurrence of the Indian people in their Constituent Assembly.

                                                                     (Emphasis added)

                   75. Therefore, there cannot be any justification in saying that the
                   guarantees and assurances given to the Rulers were sacrosanct
                   and that Articles 291 and 362 reflected only the terms of the
                   agreements and covenants. In fact as soon as the Constitution
                   came into force, the Memoranda of Agreements executed and
                   ratified by the States and Union of States were embodied in
                   formal agreements under the relevant articles of the Constitution
                   and no obligation flowed from those Agreements and Covenants
                   but only from the Constitutional provisions. To say differently,
                   after the introduction of Articles 291 and 362 in the Constitution,
                   the Agreements and Covenants have no existence at all. The
                   reference to Covenants and Agreements was casual and
                   subsidiary and the source of obligation flowed only from the
                   Constitution. Therefore, the contention urged on the use of the
                   words ‘guaranteed’ or ‘assured’ is without any force and
                   absolutely untenable.
                                                                   (Emphasis added)
                                              … … …

                   91. After the commencement of the Constitution, in pursuance of
                   Article 366(22), the Rulers were recognised and they had been
                   enjoying the privy purses, privileges, dignities etc. on the basis of
                   the relevant constitutional provisions. Pursuant to the resolution
                   passed by the All India Congress Committee in 1967, the Union
                   of India introduced the Twenty-fourth Amendment Bill in 1970
                   to implement the decision of the All India Congress Committee
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           177
                   favouring removal of privy purses, privileges etc. But the Bill
                   though passed in the Lok Sabha failed to secure the requisite
                   majority in the Rajya Sabha and thereby it lapsed. It was only
                   thereafter, the President of India issued an Order in exercise of
                   the powers vested in him under Article 366(22) de-recognising
                   the Rulers and stopping the privy purses, privileges etc. enjoyed
                   by the Rulers. This Order passed by the President was the subject-
                   matter of challenge in Madhav Rao12. The Supreme Court struck
                   down the Order of the President as invalid as in the view of the
                   Court de-recognition of the Rulers would not take away right to
                   privy purses when Articles 291 and 362 were in the Constitution.
                   It was only in that context, the observations which have been
                   relied upon by Mr Soli J. Sorabjee, were made. The Twenty-sixth
                   Amendment itself was passed by Parliament to overcome the
                   effect of this judgment. Now by this Amendment, Articles 291
                   and 362 are omitted, Article 363-A is inserted and clause (22) of
                   Article 366 is amended. Therefore, one cannot be allowed to say
                   that the abovesaid omitted articles and unamended clause were
                   the essential part of the constitutional scheme. So they have to be
                   read only in the context of a challenge made to the Presidential
                   Order which sought to render nugatory certain rights guaranteed
                   in the Constitution which were then existing. In any event, the
                   constitutional bar of Article 363 denudes the jurisdiction of any
                   Court in disputes arising from covenants and treaties executed by
                   the Rulers. The statement of Objects and Reasons of Twenty-sixth
                   Amendment clearly points out that the retention of the above
                   articles and continuation of the privileges and privy purses would
                   be incompatible with the egalitarian society assured in the
                   Constitution and, therefore, in order to remove the concept of
                   rulership and terminate the recognition granted to Rulers and
                   abolish the privy purses, this Amendment was brought on being
                   felt necessary.
                                                                    (Emphasis added)
                                               … … …

                   96. Permanent retention of the privy purse and the privileges of
                   rights would be incompatible with the sovereign and republican
                   form of Government. Such a retention will also be incompatible
                   with the egalitarian form of our Constitution. That is the opinion
                   of the Parliament which acted to repeal the aforesaid provisions
                   in exercise of its constituent power. The repudiation of the right
                   to privy purse privileges, dignities etc. by the deletion of Articles
                   291 and 362, insertion of Article 363-A and amendment of clause
                   (22) of Article 366 by which the recognition of the Rulers and
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           178
                   payment of privy purse are withdrawn cannot be said to have
                   offended Article 14 or 19(g) [sic 19(1)(f)] and we do not find any
                   logic in such a submission. No principle of justice, either
                   economic, political or social is violated by the Twenty-sixth
                   Amendment. Political justice relates to the principle of rights of
                   the people, i.e. right to universal suffrage, right to democratic
                   form of Government and right to participation in political affairs.
                   Economic justice is enshrined in Article 39 of the Constitution.
                   Social justice is enshrined in Article 38. Both are in the directive
                   principles of the Constitution. None of these rights are abridged
                   or modified by this Amendment. We feel that this contention need
                   not detain us anymore and, therefore, we shall pass on to the next
                   point in debate.”



                Mohan, J. in his separate opinion, concurred with the majority decision

        and observed:-


                   “151. The guarantees in Articles 291 and 362 are guarantees for
                   the payment of privy purses. Such a guarantee can always be
                   revoked in public interest; more so, for fulfilling a policy
                   objective or the directive principles of the Constitution. This is
                   precisely what the preamble to the impugned Amendment says.
                   That being so, the theory of sanctity of contract or the
                   unamendability of Article 291 or 362 does not have any
                   foundation. The theory of political justice is also not tenable since
                   political justice means the principle of political equality such as
                   adult suffrage, democratic form of Government, etc.

                   152. The treaties/covenants/etc. entered into between the Union
                   of India and the Rulers were as a result of political action. No
                   justiciable rights were intended to be created. Article 363 as it
                   stood in its original form spells out this proposition. The rights
                   and privileges in the articles prior to the Twenty-sixth
                   Amendment were as acts of State of the Government and not in
                   recognition of the sacrifices of the Rulers. By no means, can it be
                   contended that these guarantees given to the Rulers were ever
                   intended to be continued indefinitely.”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   179
                This Court, thus, rejected all the challenges and held the Constitution

      (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971 to be valid.


      89.       Consequent to the de-recognition of Rulers of Indian States and

      abolition of Privy Purses by the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act,

      1971, the Parliament enacted 1972 Act. The relevant provisions of 1972 Act

      are set out in paragraph 19 hereinabove. It sought to amend certain enactments

      which had granted privileges to former Rulers. One such example pertaining

      to the provisions of the Wealth Tax Act is set out in detail in said paragraph 19.

      The Statement of Objects and Reasons for 1972 Act discloses that indefinite

      continuance of the privileges was found indefensible, but the withdrawal or

      cessation would not be immediate “to enable the former Rulers to adjust

      progressively.”


                Thus, unlike Privy Purses, the termination of which was intended to be

      immediate and therefore the source for Privy Purses, namely, Article 291 itself

      was deleted, the deletion of Article 362 by itself would not result in cessation

      of every privilege or personal right with respect to which “due regard” was had

      while exercising legislative power in terms of Article 362 before its deletion.

      The source being in the statutory enactments, despite deletion of Article 362, if
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      180
      the concerned legislations continue to remain in operation, the personal rights

      or privileges could still be enjoyed. That is precisely why, on the strength of

      various statutory provisions certain benefits in the form of personal rights or

      privileges are still available.          It is for the concerned legislatures to take

      appropriate steps in accordance with law, either to terminate the effect and

      operation of extension of such benefits or allow them to operate or lessen the

      extent and cause gradual changes as was sought to be undertaken by 1972 Act.


      90.       Thus, if the provisions of the TC Act to the extent it enacted Chapter

      III of Part I dealing with “Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple” and related

      provisions are taken to be an exercise by the concerned Legislature with “due

      regard” to the assurances and guarantees in covenant or agreements in terms of

      Article 362 as it existed then even with deletion of Article 362 the concerned

      provisions would still be operative so long as appropriate steps are not taken by

      the concerned Legislature.


      91.       As is evident from the White Paper referred to hereinabove, the

      assurances and guarantees given in the covenants or agreements entered into

      with various Rulers normally had four elements; i) that certain sums shall be

      payable to the Rulers by way of Privy Purses; ii) that certain properties
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      181
      mentioned as private properties of the Ruler would vest in the Ruler in his

      personal capacity; iii) that succession to the Gaddi would go strictly by the

      prevalent law and custom; and iv) that personal rights, privileges and dignities

      enjoyed by the Rulers and in some cases by the members of the family of the

      Ruler, would continue to be available.


      92.       Out of the aforesaid four elements, the elements (i) and (iv) were

      covered by Articles 291 and 362 as they stood before being deleted. The effect

      of such deletion has been discussed and dealt with. The elements (ii) and (iii)

      are normal incidents which were not within the scope of said Articles 291 and

      362. Despite the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, the

      private properties of the Ruler would continue to be available for normal

      succession and devolution in accordance with the law and custom. Though

      concepts such as Ruler or Rulership have ceased to operate, succession to the

      Gaddi as an incident may still operate. For instance, there could be a sword or

      any other ceremonial weapon, or a sarpech, or heirloom jewellery, which must

      go by rule of primogeniture, as against the normal way of succession with

      regard to other personal properties.                All such incidents have not been

      terminated. The clear example is in clause (iv) of sub-section (1) of Section 5

      of the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 which uses the expression “jewellery in the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  182
      possession of any Ruler, not being his personal property” which had been

      recognized as his “heirloom”. Such items or properties which fall in or are

      connected strictly with element (iii), may descend along with succession to the

      Gaddi and by very nature must remain impartible. On the other hand, if normal

      principles of succession are applied, at any given level of succession, such

      items or properties recognized as “heirloom” may be required to be shared

      amongst more than one person and would therefore cease to be impartible.


      93.       These four elements were covered by Articles XIV, XV, XVII and XVI

      respectively in the Covenant in the present case. However, apart from the said

      four assurances, the Covenant also dealt with an additional and important

      aspect in Article VIII(b). It accepted and acknowledged that the administration

      with respect to the Temple, Sri Pandaravaga properties, and the property of the

      Temple which was also vested in the Ruler of the Covenanting State would

      continue to be conducted in the manner stipulated therein, subject to the control

      and supervision of the Ruler of Travancore. The effect of such Article and the

      fact that such vesting was not in the capacity as Ruler has already been dealt

      with. It has also been concluded that the expression “The Ruler of Travancore”

      was only to locate and describe the person who would be in control and

      supervision of the administration.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  183

      94.       In the premises, we must conclude that the Constitution (Twenty Sixth

      Amendment) Act, 1971 did not in any way impact or affect the administration

      of the Temple, Sri Pandaravaga properties and the properties of the Temple,

      which continued to be under the control and supervision of the Ruler of

      Travancore.


      E]     Effect of the death of the person who had signed the Covenant as
      the Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore


      95.       As stated in paragraph 21 hereinabove, Sree Chithira Thirunal

      Balarama Varma who had signed the Covenant as the Ruler of the Covenanting

      State of Travancore, passed away on 19.07.1991.


      96.       It was submitted on behalf of the State that the said Ruler of the

      Covenanting State of Travancore was duly recognized by the President of India

      in terms of Article 366(22) of the Constitution as it stood before the

      Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971, and that even after the said

      Amendment, by virtue of amended definition of Ruler under Article 366(22) he

      continued to fulfil the criteria, and could answer the definition of “Ruler”. It

      was further submitted that he was thus, the recognized Ruler of Travancore and

      in that capacity he could, during his lifetime have the benefit of Chapter III of
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   184
      Part I of the TC Act; that after his death, no person or a successor could be

      recognized as Ruler of Travancore in terms of Article 366(22), as amended;

      and as such, no person can come within the meaning of expression “Ruler of

      Travancore” as used in said Chapter III of Part I, and consequently, no person

      or successor could avail of the benefit of various provisions in Chapter III of

      Part I of the TC Act.


                On the other hand, the submission on behalf of the appellants as well as

      the Intervenors supporting them is that for the purposes of said Chapter III of

      Part I, the definition in Article 366(22) would not be the governing definition.

      The matter has to be assessed going by the context in which the expression had

      been used in the Covenant and the TC Act.


      97.       The discussion in the first and second segments hereinbefore have led

      us to conclude that as on the day when the Covenant became effective, the Ruler

      of the Covenanting State of Travancore, was holding the office of Shebait of

      the Temple, which was not in his official capacity as the Ruler; and that the

      effect of Sub Article (b) of Article VIII was not to invest any new authority and

      power in him for the first time because of his official status, but an

      acknowledgement of the existing authority and power already vested in him. It
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   185
      has also been concluded by us that the expression “Ruler of Travancore” in the

      Covenant and in the TC Act was only to identify the person, and that the official

      status of the Ruler of Travancore had no relation with such administration.


               The principles emanating from various decisions which were

      considered in the first segment have been culled out by us in para 72

      hereinabove. If according to the settled principles, the Shebaitship is like any

      other heritable property which would devolve in accordance with custom or

      usage, and that the rule of custom must prevail in all cases, even after the death

      of the erstwhile Ruler of Travancore in 1991, the Shebaitship of the Temple

      being unconnected with the official status of the person who signed the

      Covenant, must devolve by the applicable laws of succession and custom.

              The proclamation issued on 10.08.1947 as referred to in paragraph 8

      hereinabove clearly states the applicable principles of succession. The decision

      of this Court in Revathiannal13 is also to similar effect. Thus, going by

      concerned principles of succession and custom, the successor can easily be

      located.


      98.       It may be relevant to note here that the TC Act has not defined the

      expression “Ruler”, and the definition of Ruler under Article 366 (22) of the
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                            186
      Constitution is for the purposes of the Constitution whereas the expression

      “Ruler” as defined under Article 363 of the Constitution in inclusive manner is

      for the purposes of said Article alone.             In Maharaja Pravir Chandra Bhanj

      Deo Kakatiya vs. The State of Madhya Pradesh55 the Constitution Bench of

      this Court had stated:-


                         “… There is nothing in the provisions of Art. 366(22) which
                         requires a court to recognize such a person as a Ruler for
                         purposes outside the Constitution. …”


                Similarly, in Rani Ratna Prova Devi                   vs.    State of Orissa and

      another56, another Constitution Bench of this Court had observed:-


                         “…But it must be remembered that the definitions
                         prescribed by Art. 366 are intended for the purpose of
                         interpreting the articles in the Constitution itself, unless the
                         context otherwise requires, and so, the argument that the
                         definition of the word “Ruler” prescribed by the Act is
                         inconsistent with the definition prescribed by Art. 366 (22),
                         has really no substance or meaning. …”


      99.       The definitions of ‘Ruler’ in Articles 363 and 366(22) thus do not ipso

      facto have any application to the provisions of the TC Act, unless the TC Act

      expressly stipulates so or impliedly refers to such definitions either under

      Article 363 or under Article 366(22). With the deletion of Articles 291 and

      55 (1961) 2 SCR 501
      56 (1964) 6 SCR 301
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  187
      362, the scope of definition in Article 366(22) to find a particular Ruler for

      conferral of advantages referred to in both the Articles, has ceased to have any

      significance. However, the concept of the Ruler and Rulership, as discussed

      hereinabove are still relevant insofar as certain legislations and provisions are

      concerned.       Many of these legislations, normally define the expression

      themselves, or by reference incorporate the definition as given in Article 363;

      for example, Section 87B of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. No such

      provision was made in the TC Act. The question therefore, is whether the

      expression “Ruler of Travancore” as appearing in Chapter III of Part I of the

      TC Act is capable of being understood to include his successors according to

      custom.


      100.      A perusal at Sections 15, 62 and Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act

      clearly shows that these provisions were put on the Statute Book having “due

      regard” to the Covenant. Since the source of these provisions lies in the

      Covenant, and there being no definition of “Ruler of Travancore”, or for that

      matter “Ruler of Cochin”, one has to consider the relevant Articles of the

      Covenant to assess or understand the significance of the said provisions of the

      TC Act. Sections 15, 62 and Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act were enacted
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   188
      principally to give effect to Article VIII and generally to give effect to the

      Covenant.


      101.      In the earlier segments, we have already concluded that Article VIII had

      clearly used the expression “now vested in trust in the Ruler” while speaking

      about the administration of the Temple, Sri Pandaravaga properties, and the

      properties of the Temple. The Covenant thus, not only acknowledged such

      status, but in sub-Article ‘b’ of Article VIII, intended to continue the status

      where such person would continue to exercise control and supervision over the

      administration of the Temple. This was in the backdrop of the long standing

      association of the ruling family with the Temple, and the Shebaitship held by

      the continuous line of Rulers. The expression “Ruler of Travancore” used in

      the provisions of the TC Act must therefore be understood in the same light.

      As held earlier, the Covenant never intended to restrict, or do away, with the

      right of administration already vested in the “Ruler of Travancore”, and such

      expression was not intended to be confined to the present incumbent, or the

      person who had signed as the Ruler of the Covenanting State of Travancore.

      Going by the normal incidents of Shebaitship including the heritability, the

      context in which the expression was used in Article VIII of the Covenant, and
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     189
      carried in the provisions of the TC Act, it must be held that such expression

      must include the successors to the person who had signed the Covenant.


      102.      Apart from the Covenant, the expression “Ruler of Travancore” as used

      in Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act did not depend upon any other enactment

      or instrument to look for the successor to the Ruler of Travancore, nor is there

      any express or implied intendment to go by the definition of “Ruler” either

      under Article 363 or 366(22) of the Constitution. The Covenant speaks of

      succession, according to law and custom, and that is how the successor must be

      identified. As Hidayatullah, C.J., opined in paragraphs 53 and 7257 of his

      Judgment in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia12 the definition in Article 366(22)

      as it then stood was merely a key to find a particular Ruler, and that the selection

      of a successor to the Ruler was required to be worked out under the Covenant.

      The method of selecting the successor under Article 366(22) as it then stood

      was not by way of any different formula or principle but was rooted in the

      concerned law and custom. That being the underlying principle as available

      from the Covenant, there would not be any difficulty in identifying the

      successor as and when the occasion arises.




      57 Quoted in paragraph 84 hereinabove
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    190
      103.      At the same time, if the submission that the expression “Ruler of

      Travancore” in the TC Act must be made dependent on the recognition, is

      accepted, it would lead to incalculable inconvenience and prejudice. First, it

      was never the intention of the Legislature to make such an expression

      dependent upon any recognition. Secondly, there is no power in the President

      of India, after the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment) Act, 1971 to grant

      any such recognition. Thirdly, the consequence of such an interpretation would

      mean that the unbroken line of succession to the Shebaitship would stand

      terminated making the entire Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act meaningless

      and redundant. Consequently, the administration of the Temple, Sri

      Pandaravaga properties and the properties of the Temple would suffer immense

      prejudice.      Section 15 of the Act which vested the rights, authority and

      jurisdiction in respect of Devaswoms and Hindu Religious Endowments in the

      Travancore Board is also inapplicable to Chapter III of Part I. This would result

      in a complete void. The Legislature could not be ascribed of such an intention.

      On the other hand, the Legislature must be taken to be well aware that the

      Shebaitship was heritable, and remained in the royal family for few centuries

      in an unbroken line of succession. It is for this reason, consistent with the terms
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   191
      of the Covenant, a special dispensation was made in Chapter III of Part I of the

      TC Act.


      104.      It may be relevant to note that the State in two affidavits filed in the

      Suits as referred to hereinabove, has taken a clear stand that the Temple is

      managed by the Travancore Palace. These affidavits were filed by responsible

      officers of the State, well after the death of the then Ruler in 1991. The

      understanding on part of the State machinery, or the officials by itself can never

      be the determining criteria, but that is a relevant factor to be taken note of, as

      observed by this Court in National and Grindlays Bank Ltd. vs. Municipal

      Corporation of Greater, Bombay58 and in Desh Bandhu Gupta and Co. and

      others vs. Delhi Stock Exchange Association Ltd.59


      105.      In the instant case, since the Shebaitship had vested in the Ruler of

      Travancore, not in his official capacity, the normal incident of heritability must

      get attached to the office of such Shebaitship in accordance with governing

      principles of succession and custom. Therefore, when it comes to the matter

      concerning the administration of the Temple, Sri Pandavaraga properties and

      the properties of the Temple, the expression “the Ruler of Travancore” as

      58 (1969) 1 SCC 541 para 5
      59 (1979) 4 SCC 565 para 9
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  192
      appearing in Chapter III of Part I of TC Act must mean the successor in

      accordance with the prevalent law and custom. In the process one need not go

      to the definition of Ruler either under Article 366(22) or under Article 363 of

      the Constitution of India. Consistent with the principles that have been culled

      out in para 72 hereinabove, after the death of the person who was in control and

      supervision of the administration, the heritable interest must devolve in

      accordance with the customary rights.


      106.      Further, unless and until the line of succession of the Shebaitship and

      in-charge of the administration, is completely extinct, there can be no question

      of escheat as observed by the High Court. In Kutchi Lal Rameshwar Ashram

      Trust Evam Anna Kshetra Trust v. Collector, Haridwar60, this Court had an

      occasion to consider the issue of escheat in the context of a Public Trust. In

      that case, after the death of one Mohanlal in whose name patta of the property

      was secured, the Collector had concluded that the property vested in the State

      Government by operation of law. Setting aside the decision of the High Court

      which had affirmed the conclusions of the Collector, this Court observed:-

                   “20. Section 29 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 has been
                   invoked by the Collector. Section 29 provides as follows:



      60 (2017) 16 SCC 418
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          193
                      “29. Failure of heirs.—If an intestate has left no heir
                      qualified to succeed to his or her property in accordance
                      with the provisions of this Act, such property shall devolve
                      on the Government; and the Government shall take the
                      property subject to all the obligations and liabilities to
                      which an heir would have been subject.”

                   Section 29 embodies the principle of escheat. The doctrine of
                   escheat postulates that where an individual dies intestate and does
                   not leave behind an heir who is qualified to succeed to the
                   property, the property devolves on the Government. Though the
                   property devolves on the Government in such an eventuality, yet
                   the Government takes it subject to all its obligations and
                   liabilities. The State in other words does not take the property (at
                   SCC p. 113, para 12) “as a rival or preferential heir of the
                   deceased but as the lord paramount of the whole soil of the
                   country”, as held in State of Punjab v. Balwant Singh61. This
                   principle from Halsbury’s Laws of England62 was adopted by this
                   Court while explaining the ambit of Section 29. Section 29 comes
                   into operation only on there being a failure of heirs. Failure means
                   a total absence of any heir to the person dying intestate. When a
                   question of escheat arises, the onus rests heavily on the person
                   who asserts the absence of an heir qualified to succeed to the
                   estate of the individual who has died intestate to establish the
                   case. The law does not readily accept such a consequence. In State
                   of Bihar v. Radha Krishna Singh63, a Bench of three Judges of
                   this Court formulated the principle in the following observations:

                      “272. It is well settled that when a claim of escheat is put
                      forward by the Government the onus lies heavily on the
                      appellant to prove the absence of any heir of the respondent
                      anywhere in the world. Normally, the court frowns on the
                      estate being taken by escheat unless the essential conditions
                      for escheat are fully and completely satisfied. Further,
                      before the plea of escheat can be entertained, there must be
                      a public notice given by the Government so that if there is
                      any claimant anywhere in the country or for that matter in
                      the world, he may come forward to contest the claim of the
                      State. In the instant case, the States of Bihar and Uttar
                      Pradesh merely satisfied themselves by appearing to oppose

      61 1992 Supp (3) SCC 108
      62 4th Edn., Vol.17, Para 1439
      63   (1983) 3 SCC 118
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          194
                      the claims of the respondent-plaintiffs. Even if they succeed
                      in showing that the plaintiffs were not the nearest
                      reversioners of the late Maharaja, it does not follow as a
                      logical corollary that the failure of the plaintiffs’ claim
                      would lead to the irresistible inference that there is no other
                      heir who could at any time come forward to claim the
                      properties.”
                                               … … …

                   22. In Rambir Das v. Kalyan Das64 a Bench of two learned Judges
                   of this Court dealt with a case of shebaitship. Citing the authority
                   of Justice B.K. Mukherjea’s celebrated Tagore Law Lectures with
                   approval, this Court took note of the position of law elucidated in
                   the lectures: (Rambir Das case64, SCC p. 105, para 3)

                             “3. … ‘As shebaitship is property, it devolves like
                         any other property according to the ordinary Hindu
                         law of inheritance. If it remains in the founder, it
                         follows the line of founder’s heirs; if it is disposed of
                         absolutely in favour of a grantee, it devolves upon the
                         heirs of the latter in the ordinary way and if for any
                         reason the line appointed by the donor fails
                         altogether, Shebaitship reverts to the family of the
                         founder.’”

                   On the question of escheat, B.K. Mukherjea, J. observes thus:
                   (SCC p. 106, para 3)

                             “3. … ‘As there is always an ultimate reversion to
                         the founder or his heirs, in case the line of shebaits is
                         extinct, strictly speaking no question of escheat arises
                         so far as the devolution of shebaitship is concerned.
                         But cases may be imagined where the founder also
                         has left no heirs, and in such cases the founder’s
                         properties may escheat to the State together with the
                         endowed property. In circumstances like these, the
                         rights of the State would possibly be the same as those
                         of the founder himself, and it would be for it to
                         appoint a shebait for the debutter property. It cannot
                         be said that the State receiving a dedicated property



        64 (1997) 4 SCC 102
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          195
                         by escheat can put an end to the trust and treat it as
                         secular property.’”

                   In other words, even in a situation where a founder or his line of
                   heirs is extinct, and the properties escheat to the State, the State
                   which receives a dedicated property is subject to the trust and
                   cannot treat it in the manner of a secular property. In fact, we may
                   note, Section 29 expressly stipulates that the State “shall take the
                   property subject to all the obligations and liabilities to which an
                   heir would have been subject”.

                   23. In deciding this case, this Court must also bear in mind the
                   settled principle that unless the founder of a math or religious
                   institution has laid down the principle governing succession to the
                   endowment, succession is regulated by the custom or usage of the
                   institution. This principle was enunciated over six decades ago by
                   this Court in Sital Das v. Sant Ram43, rendered by B.K.
                   Mukherjea, J., speaking for a Bench of four Judges: (AIR p. 609,
                   para 9)

                             “9. In the appeal before us the contentions raised
                       by the parties primarily centre round the point as to
                       whether after the death of Kishore Das, the plaintiff or
                       Defendant 3 acquired the rights of Mahant in regard to
                       the Thakardwara in dispute. The law is well settled that
                       succession to Mahantship of a Math or religious
                       institution is regulated by custom or usage of the
                       particular institution, except where a rule of succession
                       is laid down by the founder himself who created the
                       endowment. As the Judicial Committee laid down [Vide
                       Genda Puri v. Chatar Puri44, IA at p. 105] in one of the
                       many cases on this point: (SCC OnLine PC)

                            ‘… In determining who is entitled to succeed
                            as Mohunt, the only law to be observed is to
                            be found in the custom and practice, which
                            must be proved by testimony, and the
                            claimant must show that he is entitled
                            according to the custom to recover the office
                            and the land and property belonging to it.’
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                           196

                        Mere infirmity of the title of the defendant, who is in
                        possession, will not help the plaintiff.”

                                               …    …     …

                   25. The principle that the law does not readily accept a claim to
                   escheat and that the onus rests heavily on the person who asserts
                   that an individual has died intestate, leaving no legal heir,
                   qualified to succeed to the property, is founded on a sound
                   rationale. Escheat is a doctrine which recognises the State as a
                   paramount sovereign in whom property would vest only upon a
                   clear and established case of a failure of heirs. This principle is
                   based on the norm that in a society governed by the Rule of Law,
                   the court will not presume that private titles are overridden in
                   favour of the State, in the absence of a clear case being made out
                   on the basis of a governing statutory provision. To allow
                   administrative authorities of the State—including the Collector,
                   as in the present case—to adjudicate upon matters of title
                   involving civil disputes would be destructive of the Rule of Law.
                   The Collector is an officer of the State. He can exercise only such
                   powers as the law specifically confers upon him to enter upon
                   private disputes. In contrast, a civil court has the jurisdiction to
                   adjudicate upon all matters involving civil disputes except where
                   the jurisdiction of the court is taken away, either expressly or by
                   necessary implication, by statute. In holding that the Collector
                   acted without jurisdiction in the present case, it is not necessary
                   for the Court to go as far as to validate the title which is claimed
                   by the petitioner to the property. The Court is not called upon to
                   decide whether the possession claimed by the Trust of over forty-
                   five years is backed by a credible title. The essential point is that
                   such an adjudicatory function could not have been arrogated to
                   himself by the Collector. Adjudication on titles must follow
                   recourse to the ordinary civil jurisdiction of a court of competent
                   jurisdiction under Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
                   1908.”


      107.      In the circumstances, we hold that the death of Sree Chithira Thirunal

      Balarama Varma who had signed the Covenant, would not in any way affect

      the Shebaitship of the Temple held by the royal family of Travancore; that after
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         197
      such death, the Shebaitship must devolve in accordance with the applicable law

      and custom upon his successor; that the expression “Ruler of Travancore” as

      appearing in Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act must include his natural

      successors according to law and custom; and that the Shebaitship did not lapse

      in favour of the State by principle of escheat.


      108.      We must now deal with two decisions on which reliance was placed by

      Mr. Suresh, learned counsel for respondent Nos.3, 4 and 6 in appeal arising

      from Special Leave Petition (Civil) No.12361 of 2011.

      A)        In Bala Shankar Maha Shanker Bhattjee and Others vs. Charity

      Commissioner, Gujarat State23 the basic issue was whether Kalika Mataji

      Temple was a public Trust. The High Court found, inter alia, that by Sanad

      No.19, Scindias in their capacity as sovereign Rulers had passed on their

      obligations in respect of the temple to the British Government by a treaty

      concluded between them in 1860. After considering various decisions on the

      point, the principles were noted by this Court as under: -

                   “19. A place in order to be a temple, must be a place for public
                   religious worship used as such place and must be either dedicated
                   to the community at large or any section thereof as a place of
                   public religious worship. The distinction between a private
                   temple and public temple is now well settled. In the case of former
                   the beneficiaries are specific individuals; in the latter they are
                   indeterminate or fluctuating general public or a class thereof.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                             198
                   Burden of proof would mean that a party has to prove an
                   allegation before he is entitled to a judgment in his favour. The
                   one or the other of the contending parties has to introduce
                   evidence on a contested issue. The question of onus is material
                   only where the party on which it is placed would eventually lose
                   if he failed to discharge the same. Where, however, parties joined
                   the issue, led evidence, such evidence can be weighed in order to
                   determine the issue. The question of burden becomes academic.

                   20. An idol is a juristic person capable of holding property. The
                   property endowed to it vests in it but the idol has no beneficial
                   interest in the endowment. The beneficiaries are the worshippers.
                   Dedication may be made orally or can be inferred from the
                   conduct or from a given set of facts and circumstances. There
                   need not be a document to evidence dedication to the public. The
                   consciousness of the manager of the temple or the devotees as to
                   the public character of the temple; gift of properties by the public
                   or grant by the ruler or Government; and long use by the public
                   as of right to worship in the temple are relevant facts drawing a
                   presumption strongly in favour of the view that the temple is a
                   public temple. The true character of the temple may be decided
                   by taking into consideration diverse circumstances. Though the
                   management of a temple by the members of the family for a long
                   time, is a factor in favour of the view that the temple is a private
                   temple, it is not conclusive. It requires to be considered in the light
                   of other facts or circumstances. Internal management of the
                   temple is a mode of orderly discipline or the devotees are allowed
                   to enter into the temple to worship at particular time or after some
                   duration or after the headman leaves the temple are not
                   conclusive. The nature of the temple and its location are also
                   relevant facts. The right of the public to worship in the temple is
                   a matter of inference.

                   21. Dedication to the public may be proved by evidence or
                   circumstances obtainable in given facts and circumstances. In
                   given set of facts, it is not possible to prove actual dedication
                   which may be inferred on the proved facts that place of public
                   religious worship has been used as of right by the general public
                   or a section thereof as such place without let or hindrance. In a
                   public debuttar or endowment, the dedication is for the use or
                   benefit of the public. But in a private endowment when property
                   is set apart for the worship of the family idol, the public are not
                   interested. The mere fact that the management has been in the
                   hands of the members of the family itself is not a circumstance to
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         199
                   conclude that the temple is a private trust. In a given case
                   management by the members of the family may give rise to an
                   inference that the temple is impressed with the character of a
                   private temple and assumes importance in the absence of an
                   express dedication through a document. As stated earlier,
                   consciousness of the manager or the devotees in the user by the
                   public must be as of right. If the general public have always made
                   use of the temple for the public worship and devotion in the same
                   way as they do in other temples, it is a strong circumstance in
                   favour of the conclusiveness of public temple. The origin of the
                   temple, when lost in antiquity, it is difficult to prove dedication
                   to public worship. It must be inferred only from the proved facts
                   and circumstances of a given case. No set of general principles
                   could be laid.”



              This decision lays down the parameters for testing whether a particular

      temple is a private temple, or a public temple, and reiterates that though the

      property endowed to it vests in the idol, it has no beneficial interest in it and

      that the beneficiaries are worshippers. It also acknowledges that in a given case

      the management of the temple may be by the members of a family.

              The conclusions drawn by us in the present case, are not in any way

      inconsistent with this decision and the accepted premise in the present case is

      that the Temple is a public temple.

      B)        In Deep Chand vs. The State of Uttar Pradesh and Others22 , the

      questions that arose for consideration were concerning the validity of a scheme

      framed by the State pursuant to the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939.

      Thereafter, Parliament enacted the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 1956,
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  200
      which inserted Chapter IVA into the principal Act. The matter was tested on

      the principles of repugnancy as also on the anvil of Article 13 of the

      Constitution. The decision in Deep Chand (supra) thus has no application to

      the present controversy.


      109.      Having considered the nature of Shebatiship of the Temple and the

      effect of developments such as the Constitution (Twenty Sixth Amendment)

      Act, 1971 and the death of the Ruler who has signed the Covenant, we now turn

      to the other issues projected by the learned counsel for various parties.


      I]        Bar under Article 363 of the Constitution of India

      i)        In para 77 of his opinion in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia12,

      Hidayatullah, C.J., had observed that insofar as the guarantees that had found

      place in legislative measures, the provisions of Article 362 need not be invoked

      and the dispute could be decided on the basis of the Statutes which were enacted

      having due regard to the contents of the Covenant, and that such a case would

      not attract Article 362. To similar effect are the observations made by the

      Majority Judgment in that decision in the portions quoted hereinabove. The

      matter was put beyond any doubt in para 60 of the leading judgment in

      Raghunathrao Ganpatrao14 where the ratio in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   201
      Scindia12 was dealt with, and it was held that the jurisdiction of the Courts

      would not get excluded where relief was found in a statutory provision enacted

      in terms of Article 362 of the Constitution. The tenor of the Suits as filed was

      to agitate that the expression “Ruler of Travancore” appearing in Chapter III of

      Part I of the TC Act ought to be construed in the manner suggested by the

      plaintiffs. The relief was thus founded on the interpretation suggested by the

      plaintiffs and therefore would not come within the bar engrafted in Article 363

      of the Constitution. The decisions of this Court in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao

      Scindia12 as well as in Raghunathrao Ganpatrao14 have clearly ruled out the

      applicability of any such bar.


      ii)       As observed in the judgments of Hidayatullah, C.J., and the majority

      judgment as well as in the opinion of Hegde, J., in order to get the bar under

      Article 363 attracted, the dispute must fall under either of two limbs of Article

      363. Under the first limb the dispute must arise out of the provisions of the

      Covenant, whereas under the second limb the dispute must be with respect to

      the right arising out of a provision of the Constitution relating to the Covenant.

                The dispute raised in the Suits in the present case, which were sought

      to be transferred to the High Court, had questioned the authority of the appellant

      No.1 only from the stand point of the expression “Ruler of Travancore”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       202
      appearing in Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act, and would not get covered

      under either of the limbs of Article 363 of the Constitution.


      iii)      The reliance placed on the decision of this Court in Colonel His

      Highness Sawai Tej Singhji of Alwar vs. Union of India and anr.16 was thus

      completely misplaced. In that case, the Suit was filed by the Ruler of Alwar

      praying that three properties namely the Secretariat Building, Daulat Khana

      building and Indra Viman Station be declared as private properties of said Ruler

      and that State of Rajasthan be ejected from those properties or in the alternative

      be directed to pay rent to said Ruler.               The issue was whether those three

      properties were accepted to be private properties of the Ruler. Since the Suit

      directly related to the scope of the description of the property in the concerned

      documents pertaining to accession, in view of the bar under Article 363 of the

      Constitution, the Suits were found to be not maintainable. A submission was

      advanced before this Court that in the “parent” Covenant the property was

      described to be the private property of the Ruler, and subsequent

      communications including the one dated 14.09.1949, would not operate as a

      bar under Article 363 of the Constitution. In this backdrop the matter was dealt

      with by this Court as under:-

                   “20. Another contention raised by Mr Sharma was that even if the
                   letter dated September 14, 1949 was held to evidence an
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          203
                   agreement, it was not hit by the provisions of Article 363 of the
                   Constitution inasmuch as it was an agreement resulting from the
                   Rajasthan Covenant which alone, according to him, was the
                   agreement covered by the article. This contention is also without
                   substance. Article 363 of the Constitution bars the jurisdiction of
                   all courts in any disputes arising out of any agreement which was
                   entered into or executed before the commencement of the
                   Constitution by any ruler of an Indian State to which the
                   Government of India was a party. The operation of the article is
                   not limited to any “Parent” covenant and every agreement
                   whether it is primary or one entered into in pursuance of the
                   provisions of a preceding agreement would fall within the ambit
                   of the article. Thus the fact that the agreement contained in the
                   letter dated September 14, 1949 had resulted from action taken
                   under the provisions of the Rajasthan Covenant, is no answer to
                   the plea raised on behalf of the respondents that Article 363 of the
                   Constitution is a bar to the maintainability of the two suits,
                   although we may add, that the agreement did not flow directly
                   from the Rajasthan Covenant but was entered into by ignoring
                   and departing from the provisions of clause (2) of Article XII
                   thereof.”


      iv)       In the circumstances, we accept the submissions made on behalf of the

      State, as well as the concerned respondents, and hold that the bar under Article

      363 of the Constitution of India would not get attracted in the present matter,

      and that the submissions in that behalf advanced on behalf of the appellants as

      well as the intervenors supporting them deserve to be rejected.


      II]       Submissions on the basis of Articles 25(1) and 26(b) of the
                Constitution

      i)        The submissions advanced by Mr. Deepak, learned Advocate for the

      Intervenors in this connection have been noted out in para 42 hereinabove.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      204
      However, no such submissions were either advanced before the High Court, or

      in this Court, on behalf of the appellants. No factual foundation was also laid

      either before the High Court or in the form of pleadings by the appellants before

      this Court.


      ii)       In the absence of pleadings and requisite issues having been raised by

      the competing claimants, it would be extremely difficult to enter into said issues

      so raised by Mr. Deepak, learned Advocate and consider whether the role

      played by the Royal Family as descendants of Maharaja Aditya and as

      “Padmanabhadasa” is essential and integral to the very foundation and identity of the

      Temple. Similarly, the question whether “Parashurama Padhati” being practiced

      has a distinct identity of its own action would also require complete elaboration

      and assessment of facts.


      iii)     We therefore accept the submissions of Mr. Gupta, learned Senior

      Advocate for the State that in the absence of any claim being raised in a

      properly instituted proceedings by an identifiable religious denomination, there

      would be no question of adjudicating or giving a finding regarding violation of

      any rights under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution, and that there would be

      no occasion to enter into the question whether or not the Temple is of a
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                   205
      denominational character as projected, or that the relationship between the

      “Ruler of Travancore” and the Temple could be said to be an essential or

      integral part of the Hindu religion in general.


      iv)      In the circumstances we refuse to enter into the questions raised by

      Mr. Deepak, learned Advocate for the Intervenors in these proceedings.


      110.     The legal issues having been dealt with, we must now consider what

      should be the “way forward”. After the decision of the High Court, various

      orders were passed by this Court, committees were formed and inspections

      were undertaken. Inventorization has taken place with respect to most of the

      Kallaras, the antiques and artifacts of the Temple have been digitized, and for

      the last more than 9 years various steps have been taken under the directions of

      this Court by all the authorities. The State has also expended considerable

      amounts as stated in the tabular chart referred to in para 44 hereinabove.


      i)       Consistent with the stand that the Temple is a public Temple and that

      no remuneration at any stage was derived in the past or would be aimed at in

      future, a suggestion was made on behalf of the appellants in the form of a Note

      in response to the affidavit in reply filed on behalf of the State. In the said

      Note, which is set out in detail in Paragraph 47 hereinabove, the appellants have
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                 206
      suggested the composition of an Administrative Committee, and of an

      Advisory Committee.             Broadly, it is suggested that the Administrative

      Committee be formed comprising of five Members, the Chairperson being a

      retired Indian Administrative Service Officer of the rank of Secretary to

      Government of Kerala; the other four members being (i) a nominee of the

      Trustee; (ii) the Chief Thantri of the Temple; (iii) a nominee of the Government

      of Kerala; and (iv) a Member to be nominated by the Ministry of Culture,

      Government of India. In terms of para 8 of the Note, the Trustee that is to say

      the Manager or Shebait of the Temple would be guided by the advice given by

      the Advisory Committee.


      ii)      On the other hand, the suggestion made on behalf of the State is to

      follow the model statutorily enacted for Guruvayoor Devaswom, and thus the

      Managing Committee would be of eight Members comprising of two ex-officio

      members, namely, Padmanabhadasa and the Senior Thantri; while the other six

      Members would be nominated by the Hindus among the Council of Ministers;

      one of them being Member of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes while

      one being a woman, and the other being a representative of the employees of

      the Temple.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      207
      111.     It may be noted here that the following Committees were constituted

      from time to time by this Court.


               A)       By Order dated 02.05.2011, two observers were appointed for

                        the purposes of inventorization.

               B)       By Order dated 21.07.2011, an Expert Committee was appointed

                        for the purposes of Inventory, Conservation and Security.

                       By same order, Overseeing Committee was also appointed to

                       supervise and guide the working of the Expert Committee.

               C)       The Order dated 13.02.2013 refers to the Temple Committee in

                        terms of Section 20 of the TC Act to advise the Ruler of

                        Travancore.

               D)       By Order dated 11.12.2013, Conservation and Restoration

                        Committee was appointed for Structural Renovation and

                        Restoration.

               E)       Since the Executive Officer proceeded on leave, an Interim

                        Administrative Committee was appointed vide Order dated

                        24.04.2014 for day to day functions relating to the Temple.

               F)       By Orders dated 09.05.2017 and 04.07.2017, apart from

                        reconstituting the Conservation Committee, a Selection
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     208
                        Committee for Sreekovil was also appointed to select the suitable

                        person having requisite knowledge.

               These Committees were constituted at the interim stage of the

      proceedings in this Court.


      112.      We may, at this stage, also refer to some of the Reports submitted by

      the Administrative Committee appointed by this Court:-

        i)      In the Report dated 05.01.2018, it was reported that taking advantage

                of the fact that an ad hoc committee was at the helm of the affairs of the

                Temple, some of the occupants of the structures on East Nada, North

                Gate and Utsava Madom Building continued to be or were in illegal

                and unauthorized occupation and that requisite action to resume the

                possession of said structures from such occupants ought to be

                undertaken.

        ii)     In the Report dated 01.01.2020, it was stated that from 04.01l.2019 to

                20.12.2019, the offerings made by the devotees visiting the Temple, in

                the ‘Kanikka’ amounted to Rs.5,68,96,260/- (Rupees Five Crores Sixty

                Eight Lakhs Ninety Six Thousand Two Hundred and Sixty Only).
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         209
        iii)    The Report dated 27.05.2020, under the signature of the District Judge,

                referred to the earlier Resolution dated 13.06.2017 and the direction

                issued by this Court in its Order dated 04.07.2017 requesting the State

                to nominate a panel of three officers from the Indian Audit and

                Accounts Service (IA &AS) to oversee the audit and accounts of the

                Temple and submit quarterly reports to the Administrative Committee.

                The Report stated:-


                   “I may also report that the Administrative Committee is perfectly
                   in the darkness regarding the financial position and accounts of
                   the Temple. Different District Judges discharged duties as
                   Chairmen of the Administrative Committee during different
                   periods since the inception of the Committee as per the directions
                   of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. So far, the respective Executive
                   Officers, in charge of the financial matters of the Temple, have
                   not produced either the budget proposals or the statement of
                   accounts before the Administrative Committee.
                                               … … …

                   The Executive Officer informed me that as the Principal
                   Accountant General raised queries on the remuneration of the
                   serving IAAS Officers and the State Government was not in a
                   position to meet the expenses, the direction of the Hon’ble
                   Supreme Court could not be complied with. Subsequently, on
                   18.09.2017, the Administrative Committee resolved the
                   following:-

                         ‘(i) The service of an IA & AS Officer is required to
                               oversee the audit conducted by the Internal Auditor and
                               Statutory Auditor.
                         (ii) The service of a serving IA & AS Officer is required
                               on foreign service terms.
                         (iii) In addition, the services of two non IA & AS Officers,
                               who are in service, is also required on foreign service
                               terms to assist the IA & AS Officer.’
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          210

                      The Committee also authorized the Executive Officer to take up
                      the matter with the Government and to bring the developments to
                      the notice of the Hon’ble Supreme Court.

                      So far, the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court to appoint an
                      IA & AS Officer to oversee the internal audit and statutory audit
                      has not been complied with. Still the Committee is in darkness
                      on the financial position and accounts of the Temple.”


      113.     The provisions of the TC Act with respect to the administration of the

      Temple are clear:-

               a) Under Section 18(2), the administration shall be conducted. “Subject

      to the control and supervision of the Ruler of Travancore, by an Executive

      Officer appointed by him.”

               b) “Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple Committee” composed of three

      members nominated by the Ruler of Travancore in terms of Section 20 is to

      advise the Ruler of Travancore in the discharge of his functions.

               The Statute has thus vested the power of appointing the Executive

      Officer and of forming the Advisory Committee, in the Ruler of Travancore.

               In the Note, the appellants have stated:-

                (i)       “The Trustee shall delegate his powers of administration under

                          Section 18(2)” to the Administrative Committee which “shall

                          administer the Temple through an Executive Officer to be

                          appointed by the Committee”.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                          211
                (ii)    On all policy matters, the Trustee shall be guided by the advice

                        of the Advisory Committee.


      114.      Having given our anxious consideration to the rival suggestions, the

      composition of the Committees as suggested by the appellants deserves

      acceptance, especially in light of the conclusions arrived by us that the

      Managership or the Shebaitship of the Temple continues with the Family. As

      against the administration contemplated by Chapter III of Part I of the TC Act

      in the hands of the Ruler of Travancore in absolute terms, the course now

      suggested by the appellants is quite balanced.                    The Composition of the

      Administrative Committee as suggested is broad based and would not be loaded

      in favour or against the Trustee. However, considering the fact that the present

      interim Administrative Committee headed by the District Judge is in seisin for

      the last more than five years, and various District Judges as Chairpersons of the

      Committee conducted themselves quite well, in our view, a minor change in

      the Administrative Committee suggested by the appellants in their Note is

      called for. Instead of a retired Indian Administrative Service Officer of the rank

      of Secretary to the Government of Kerala as the Chairperson of the

      Administrative Committee, in the interest of justice, the District Judge,

      Thiruvananthapuram shall be the Chairperson of the Administrative
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                  212
      Committee. Needless to say that the present Chairperson of the Interim

      Administrative Committee shall continue to be the Chairperson so long as he

      holds the post of the District Judge, Thiruvananthapuram. The composition of

      the Advisory Committee will ensure that the administration of the Temple is

      conducted in a fair and transparent manner.


      115.     We, therefore, accept the suggestions made by the appellants in their

      Note adverted to in detail in paragraph 47 hereinabove with regard to the

      constitution of the Administrative Committee and the Advisory Committee

      subject to the modification with respect to the Chairperson of the

      Administrative Committee as stated in the preceding paragraph. The appellant

      No.1 shall file an appropriate affidavit of undertaking within four weeks of this

      judgment in terms of paragraph 1 of the Note and also agreeing to the

      modification as stated above. The affidavit of undertaking so filed shall be

      binding on the appellant No.1 and all his successors.


               Within four weeks of filing of the affidavit of undertaking, both the

      Committees shall be constituted and become functional. The Administrative

      Committee shall immediately appoint the Executive Officer. Upon the

      constitution of the Administrative Committee, the Interim Administrative
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                    213
      Committee appointed in terms of the Order dated 24.04.2014 shall cease to

      operate.


                In terms of the Note submitted by the appellants the powers of “the

      Ruler of Travancore” under Section 18(2) of the TC Act shall stand delegated

      to the Administrative Committee while the Advisory Committee shall be

      deemed to be the Committee constituted in terms of Section 20 of the TC Act.

      It is made clear that all the members including the Chairpersons of the

      Administrative Committee and the Advisory Committee must be Hindus and

      fulfil the requirements in Section 2(aa) of the TC Act.


                All the other Committees constituted in terms of various orders passed

      by this Court shall continue for four months, and it shall be upto the Advisory

      Committee to consider whether the services of those Committees are required

      or not.


                It must also be stated that the present security arrangements as deployed

      by the State Government shall be continued, but the expenses in that behalf

      shall be borne by the Temple hereafter.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     214
      116.     The Administrative Committee and the Advisory Committee shall do

      well to discharge all their functions including performance of the worship of

      the deity, maintenance of its properties, diligently and in the best interest of the

      Temple, and provide adequate and requisite facilities to the worshippers; and

      more particularly:-

                 (a)    Preserve all treasures and properties endowed to Sree

                        Padmanabhaswamy and those belonging to the Temple.


                 (b) Protect all tenanted properties and take appropriate measures to

                        ensure reasonable returns from such tenanted properties.


                 (c)    Ensure that all rituals and religious practices are performed in

                        accordance with the instructions and guidance of the Chief

                        Thantri of the Temple and according to custom and traditions. In

                        temporal matters, the Committees shall be guided by the advice

                        given by the Chief Thanthri. The designation of the Chief

                        Thanthri shall be done in accordance with the customs and

                        traditions.
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                     215
                 (d) Shall take appropriate steps to return to the State the amounts

                        expended by the State Government as catalogued in the Chart in

                        paragraph No.44 hereinabove.


                 (e)    All the income accruing to the Temple, as well as the offerings

                        made by the worshippers, shall be expended in the following

                        manner:

                         (i)    To improve the facilities for the worshippers; and

                         (ii) For such religious and charitable purposes as the Advisory

                         Committee may deem appropriate; and

                         (iii) In investments that will fetch reasonable returns and

                         ensure that the properties of the Temple are completely safe and

                         secure.


                 (f)    Recover and retrieve any property or funds of the Temple which

                        have been put to misuse or have been in unauthorized occupation

                        or misappropriated.


                 (g) Shall order audit for the last 25 years as suggested by the learned

                        Amicus Curiae. The audit shall be conducted by a firm of

                        reputed Chartered Accountants. The Advisory Committee shall
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                       216
                        also consider what further steps need to be taken for the

                        preservation of the Temple properties, both movable and

                        immovable.


                 (h) Take appropriate steps for conservation of the Temple and its

                        precincts, as well as for improvement of all the facilities.


                 (i)    Shall consider whether Kallara B is to be opened for the purpose

                        of inventorization. The interim orders dated 27.11.2014 and

                        04.07.2017 passed by this Court had recorded that Kallara B was

                        not opened, and it was directed that inventorization with respect

                        to said Kallara B be undertaken only after obtaining express

                        orders from this Court. We deem it appropriate to leave this issue

                        to the best judgement and discretion of the Committees.



                 (j)    Conduct all the obligations which from time to time were

                        bestowed on various Committees by this Court including that of

                        the Selection Committee for Sreekovil.


                 (k) Shall file Reports in this Court by the second week of December,

                        2020 stating all the developments in brief till then. The next
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                      217
                        Report shall be filed after the accounts for the year ending

                        31.03.2021 are audited.


                 (l)    Shall file the audited accounts and the Balance Sheet with the

                        office of the Accountant General for the State, every year.


      117.      In light of the specific submission made by the appellants, the appellant

      No.1 and his successors shall not be entitled to draw any remuneration for his

      or their services as the Manager or Trustee. The Executive Officer appointed

      by the Administrative Committee shall be entitled to a modest and reasonable

      remuneration to be fixed by the Administrative Committee.


      118.      Civil Appeals thus, stand allowed subject to above directions, without

      any order as to costs.


      119.      Writ Petition (Civil) No.518 of 2011 was filed seeking following

      principal relief:

                   “Give directions to the Government of India and the Reserve
                   Bank of India to evolve and implement a mechanism whereby the
                   treasures of Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple can be preserved
                   intact, and at the same time be put to proper and profitable use
                   without possibilities of corrupt dealings, erosion and
                   wastage……”
Civil Appeal No. 2732 of 2020 (arising out of SLP(C)No.11295 of 2011) etc.
Sri Marthanda Varma (D) Thr. LRs. & Anr. vs. State of Kerala and ors.
                                                                                         218
                In view of the aforementioned directions, nothing further is required to

      be done in this Writ Petition. The Writ Petition is accordingly disposed of.


      120.      Contempt Petition No.493 of 2019 was filed submitting, inter alia, that

      certain statements were made by the Temple Guard; and that the then Executive

      Officer was protecting said Temple Guard.                      Considering the nature of

      allegations, we see no reason to take cognizance of the same and the Contempt

      Petition is dismissed.


      121.      In the end, we must express our sincere gratitude for the assistance

      rendered by the learned Amicus Curiae, and also for his invaluable suggestions

      and guidance. We are also grateful to all the persons and members of various

      Committees who diligently discharged their obligations in answer to the

      suggestions made by this Court from time to time.



                                                                        …………………….J.
                                                                        (Uday Umesh Lalit)


                                                                        ……………………J.
                                                                        (Indu Malhotra)
      New Delhi;
      July 13, 2020.
