
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
LOAN  NUMBER  3853-BAN
LOAN  AGREEMENT
(Ordinary  Operations)
(Dhaka  and  Western  Zone  Transmission  Grid  Expansion  Project)
between
PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF  BANGLADESH
and
ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT  BANK
DATED  1l  DECEMBER  2019
BAN  51137

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
LOAN  AGREEMENT
(Ordinary  Operations)
LOAN  AGREEMENT  dated  11  December  2019  between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC  OF BANGLADESH  ("Borrower")  and  ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT  BANK  ("ADB").
WHEREAS
(A)  the Borrower  has applied  to ADB  for a loan  for  the purposes  of the
Project  described  in Schedule  1 to this  Loan  Agreement;
(B)  the Borrower  has a(so applied  to the  Asian  Infrastructure  Investment
Bank ("AIIB") for  a loan  in an amount of two hundred  million  Dollars  ($200,000,000)  ("AIIB
Loan")  for  the  purposes  of cofinancing  expenditures  under  the  Project;
(C)  by a project  co-lenders'  agreement  dated  14 0ctober  2019  between
ADB  and AIIB  ("Cofinancing  Agreement"),  ADB  has agreed  to partially  administer  the AIIB
Loan  on the  terms  and  conditions  set  out  in the Cofinancing  Agreement;
(D)  the  Borrower  intends  to borrow  the  AIIB  Loan  under  a Loan  Agreement
to be entered  into  between  AIIB  and  the  Borrower  (the  "AIIB  Loan  Agreement");
(E)  the  Borrower  has  also  applied  to the  People's  Republic  of China  Poverty
Reduction  and  Regional  Cooperation  Fund  ("PRCF")  for  a grant  in an amount  of seven  hundred
and  fifty thousand  Dollars  ($750,000)  ("Grant"),  to be administered  by ADB,  for  the purposes
of cofinancing  expenditures  under  the  Project;
(F)  by a grant  agreement  of even  date  between  the Borrower  and ADB
("Grant  Agreement"),  ADB  has agreed  to make  the proceeds  of the Grant  available  to the
Borrower  on the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  therein;
(G)  the Project  will be carried  out  by Power  Grid  Company  of Bangladesh
Limited  ("PGCB"),  and  for  this  purpose  the  Borrower  will  make  available  to PGCB  the  proceeds
of the  loan  provided  for  herein  upon  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to ADB;  and
(H)  ADB  has agreed  to make  a loan  to the Borrower  from  ADB's  ordinary
capital  resources  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  herein  and  in the  Project  Agreement
of even  date  herewith  between  ADB  and PGCB;
NOW  THEREFORE  the  parties  hereto  agree  as follows:
ARTICLE  I
Loan  Regulations;  Definitions
Section  1.01.  All the provisions  of ADB's  Ordinary  Operations  Loan
Regulations,  dated  1 January  2017  ("Loan  Regulations"),  are hereby  made  applicab!e  to this
Loan  Agreement  with  the  same  force  and  effect  as if they  were  fully  set forth  herein.

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
2
Section  1.02.  Wherever  used in this Loan  Agreement,  the several
terms  defined  in the  Loan  Regulations  have  the  respective  meanings  therein  set  forth  unless
modified  herein  or the  context  otherwise  requires.  Additional  terms  used in this Loan
Agreement  have  the  following  meanings:
(a)  "CAP"  means  the corrective  action  plan for  the Project,  including  any
update  thereto,  included  in the  Environmental  Audit;
(b) Consulting  Services"  means  consulting  services  as described  in the
Procurement  Regulations  and set out  in the Procurement  Plan,  and to
be financed  out  of the proceeds  of the  Loan  and  Grant;
(c)  "EMP"  means  the environmental  management  plan for the Project,
including  any  update  thereto,  incorporated  in the  IEE;
(d)  "Environmental  Audit"  means  the environmental  audit  for the Project,
including  any  update  thereto,  incorporated  in the  IEE;
(e) "Environmental  Safeguards"  means  the  principles  and  requirements  set
forth  in Chapter  V, Appendix  1, and Appendix  4 (as applicable)  of the
SPS:
(f) "Goods"  means  equipment  and  materials  as set  out  in the  Procurement
Plan and to be financed  out of the  proceeds  of the Loan  and Grant
including  any related  Nonconsulting  Services  such  as transportation,
insurance,  installation,  commissioning,  training,  and  initial  maintenance;
(g) "IEE"  means  the  initial environmental  examination  for the Project,
including  any  update  thereto,  prepared  and submitted  by the  Borrower
and cleared  by ADB;
(h) "Involuntary  Resettlement  Safeguards"  means  the  principles  and
requirements  set forth  in Chapter  V, Appendix  2, and Appendix  4 (as
applicable)  of the  SPS;
(i)  "km"  means  kilometer;
(j)  "kV"  means  kilovolt;
(k)  "Loan  Disbursement  Handbook"  means  ADB's  Loan  Disbursement
Handbook  (201  7, as amended  from  time  to time);
"MVA"  means  megavolt-ampere;
"Nonconsulting  Services"  means  nonconsulting  services  as described  in
the  Procurement  Regulations  and  set  out  in the  Procurement  Plan,  and
to be financed  out  of the  proceeds  of the  Loan  and  Grant;
(n)  "PAM"  means  the  project  administration  manual  for  the  Project  dated  9
September  2019  and agreed  between  the Borrower  and ADB,  as

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
3
updated  from  time  to  time  in accordance  with  the  respective
administrative  procedures  of the  Borrower  and  ADB;
(o)  "Procurement  Policy"  means  ADB's  Procurement  Policy  - Goods,
Works,  Nonconsulting  and  Consulting  Services  (2017,  as amended  from
time  to time);
(p) "Procurement  Plan"  means  the procurement  plan  for  the Project  dated
9 September  2019  and agreed  between  the Borrower  and ADB,  as
updated  from  time  to time  in accordance  with  the Procurement  Policy,
the Procurement  Regulations,  and other  arrangements  agreed  with
ADB:
(q)  "Procurement  Regulations"  means  ADB's  Procurement  Regulations  for
ADB  Borrowers  - Goods,  Works,  Nonconsulting  and  Consulting
Services  (2017,  as amended  from  time  to time);
"Project  Executing  Agency"  for  the  purposes  of, and  within  the  meaning
of the Loan  Regulations  means  PGCB,  which  is responsible  for the
carrying  out  of the  Project;
(s)  "Project  facilities"  means  the  facilities  to be improved,  constructed  or
provided  under  the  Project;
"RP"  means  the  resettlement  plan  for  the  Project,  including  any  update
thereto,  prepared  and  submitted  by the  Borrower  and cleared  by ADB;
(u) "Safeguards  Monitoring  Report"  means  each report  prepared  and
submitted  by  the  Borrower  to  ADB that describes  progress  with
implementation  of and compliance  with  the  EMP,  CAP,  and  the  RP (as
applicable),  including  any  corrective  and  preventative  actions;
(v)  "Services"  means  Consulting  Services  and  Nonconsulting  Services;
(w)  "SPS"  means  ADB's  Safeguard  Policy  Statement  (2009);
(x)  "Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the
Borrower  and  PGCB  referred  to  in Section  3.01(a)  of this Loan
Agreement;  and
(y) "Works"  means  construction  or civil  works  as set  out  in the  Procurement
Plan  and to be financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  and Grant,
including  any  related  Nonconsulting  Services  and  project  related
services  that  are provided  as part  of a single  responsibility  or turnkey
contract.

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
4
ARTICLE  El
The  Loan
Section  2.01.  (a)  ADB  agrees  to lend  to the Borrower  from  ADB's
ordinary  capital  resources  an amount  of  two  hundred  seventy-one  million  eight  hundred  thirty-
eight  thousand  Euros  (€ 271,838,000),  as such  amount  may  be converted  from  time  to time
through  a Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.06  of this  Loan
Agreement.
(b)  The  Loan  has a principal  repayment  period  of 20 years,  and a grace
period  as defined  in subsection  (c) hereinaffer.
(c)  The  term  "grace  period"  as used  in subsection  (b) hereinabove  means
the period  prior  to the first Principal  Payment  Date in accordance  with the amortization
schedule  set  forth  in Schedule  2 to this  Loan  Agreement.
Section  2.02.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to ADB  interest  on the principal
amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding  from  time  to time  at a rate  for  each  Interest
Period  equal  to the  sum  of:
(a)  Euribor;
(b)  0.60%  as provided  by Section  3.02  ofthe  Loan  Regulations  less  a credit
of O.1 0% as provided  by Section  3.03  of  the  Loan  Regulations;  and
(c)  a maturity  premium  of O.10%  as provided  by Section  3.03  of the Loan
Regulations.
Section  2.03.  The  Borrower  shall  pay a commitment  charge  of O.15%
per  annum.  Such  charge  shall  accrue  on the  full amount  of the  Loan  (less  amounts  withdrawn
from  time  to time),  commencing  60 days  after  the  date  of  this  Loan  Agreement.
Section  2.04.  Interest  and other  charges  on the  Loan  shall  be payable
semiannually  on 15  April  and  15 0ctober  in each  year.
Section  2.05.  The Borrower  shall  repay  the principal  amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Schedule  2 to this
Loan  Agreement.
Section  2.06.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the
following  Conversions  of  the  terms  of the  Loan  in order  to facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)
(ii)
a change  of the Loan  Currency  of all or any portion  of the
principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  whether  withdrawn  and
outstanding  or unwithdrawn,  to an Approved  Currency;
a change  of  the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to all or any  portion
of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding
from  a Floating  Rate  to a Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;  and

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
5
(iii) the  setting  of limits  on the Floating  Rate  applicable  to all or any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by the establishment  of an Interest  Rate Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  on said  Floating  Rate.
(b)  Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to subsection  (a) hereinabove  that
is accepted  by ADB  shall  be considered  a "Conversion",  as defined  in Section  2.01(f)  of the
Loan  Regulations,  and shall  be effected  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V of the
Loan  Regulations  and  the  Conversion  Guidelines.
ARTiCLE  Ill
Use  of  Proceeds  of  the  Loan
Section  3.01.  (a)  The Borrower  shall relend  the proceeds  of the
Loan  to  PGCB  under  a Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement  upon terms  and conditions
satisfactory  to ADB.
(b)  The Borrower  shall cause  the proceeds  of the Loan  to be applied
exclusively  to the  financing  of expenditures  on the  Project  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of
this  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement.
Section  3.02.  The  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  allocated  and
withdrawn  in accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  3 to this  Loan  Agreement,  as such
Schedule  may  be amended  from  time  to time  by agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  ADB.
Section  3.03.  Except  as ADB  may  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
procure,  or cause  to be procured,  the  items  of expenditure  to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds
of the  Loan  in accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  4 to this  Loan  Agreement.
Section  3.04.  The  Loan  Closing  Date  for  the  purposes  of Section  9.02
of the  Loan  Regulations  shall  be 31 December  2024  or such  other  date  as may  from  time  to
time  be agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  ADB.
ARTICLE  IV
Particular  Covenants
Section  4.01.  In the carrying  out of the Project  and operation  of the
Project  facilities,  the  Borrower  shall  perform,  or cause  to be performed,  all obligations  set  forth
in Schedule  4 to this  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement.
Section  4.02.  The  Borrower  shall enable  ADB's  representatives  to
inspect  the  Project,  the  Goods,  Works  and  Services,  and  any  relevant  records  and  documents.

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
6
Section4.03.  ADB  shall  disclose  the  annual  audited  financial
statements  for  the  Project  and  the  opinion  of  the  auditors  on the  financial  statements  within  14
days  of  the  date  of ADB's  confirmation  of their  acceptability  by posting  them  on ADB's  website.
Section  4.04.  The  Borrower  shall take  all  actions  which  shall  be
necessary  on its part  to enable  PGCB  to perform  its obligations  under  the  Project  Agreement,
and shall  not  take  or permit  any  action  which  would  interfere  with  the performance  of such
obligations.
Section  4.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement  in such  a manner  as to protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower
and  ADB  and  to accomp!ish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.
(b)  NorightsorobligationsundertheSubsidiaryFinancingAgreementshall
be assigned,  amended,  abrogated  or waived  without  the  prior  concurrence  of  ADB.
ARTICLE  V
Suspension;  Acceleration  of  Maturity
Section  5.01.  The following  are  specified  as  additional  events  for
suspension  of the right  of the Borrower  to make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  for  the
purposes  of Section  9.01(m)  of the  Loan  Regulations:
(a)  the  Borrower  shall  have  failed  to perform  one  or more  of its obligations
under  the  AIIB  Loan  Agreement  or the  Grant  Agreement;  or
(b)  the AIIB  Loan  or Grant  shall have  become  liable  for suspension  or
cancellation  for  any  reason  whatsoever.
Section  5.02.  The following  is specified  as an additional  event  for
acceleration  of  maturity  for  the  purposes  of Section  9.07(a)(iv)  of  the  Loan  Regulations:  any  of
the  events  specified  in Section  5.01 of this  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  occurred.
ARTICLE  Vl
Effectiveness
Section  6.01.  The  following  are  specified  as additional  conditions  to the
effectiveness  of this Loan Agreement  for the purposes  of Section  10.01(f)  of the Loan
Regulations:
(a) the  AIIB  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  been  duly  executed  and  delivered
on  behalf  of the  Borrower,  and  all  conditions  precedent  to  its
effectiveness  (other  than  a condition  requiring  the  effectiveness  of this
Loan  Agreement)  shall  have  been  fulfilled  or arrangements  satisfactory

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
7
to ADB  shall  have  been  made  for  the  fulfillment  thereof  within  a period
of  time  satisfactory  to ADB;
(b) the  Grant  Agreement  shall  have  been  duly  executed  and delivered  on
behalf  of the  Borrower,  and  all conditions  precedent  to its effectiveness
(other  than  a condition  requiring  the  effectiveness  of this  Loan
Agreement)  shall  have  been  fulfilled;  and
(C) the  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement  shall  have  been  duly  executed  and
delivered  on behalf  of the Borrower  and PGCB,  and all conditions
precedent  to its effectiveness  (other  than  a condition  requiring  the
effectiveness  of  this  Loan  Agreement)  shall  have  been  fulfilled
Section  6.02.  A date  90 days  after  the  date  of  this  Loan  Agreement  is
specified  for  the  effectiveness  of  this  Loan  Agreement  for  the  purposes  of Section  10.04  of the
Loan  Regulations
ARTICLE  Vll
Miscellaneous
Section  7.01.  The Senior  Secretary  or Secretary  or any Additional
Secretary  or Chief,  Joint  Secretary  or Joint  Chief,  Deputy  Secretary  or Deputy  Chief,  Senior
Assistant  Secretary  or Senior  Assistant  Chief,  Assistant  Secretary  or Assistant  Chief  of the
Economic  Relations  Division  of the Ministry  of Finance  of the Borrower  is designated  as
representative  of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of Section  12.02  of  the  Loan  Regulations.
Section  7.02.  The  following  addresses  are specified  for  the purposes
of Section  12.01  of  the  Loan  Regulations:
For  the  Borrower
Economic  Relations  Division
Ministry  of Finance
Government  of the  People's  Republic  of Bangladesh
Sher-e-Bangla  Nagar
Dhaka  1207,  Bangladesh
Facsimile  Number:
(880)  2-918-0788
For  ADB
Asian  Development  Bank
6 ADB  Avenue
Mandaluyong  City
1550  Metro  Manila
Philippines

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
8
Facsimile  Numbers:
(632)  8636-2444
(632)  8636-2293.
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF  the  parties  hereto,  acting  through  their
representatives  thereunto  duly  authorized,  have  caused  this  Loan  Agreement  to be signed  in
their  respective  names  as of the day  and  year  first  above  written  and  to be delivered  at the
principal  office  of  ADB.
PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
BANGLADESH
OF
BY
MONOWAR  AHMED
Secretary
Economic  Relations  Division
Ministry  of Finance
ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT  BANK
BY
MANMOHAN  PARKASH
Country  Director
Bangladesh  Resident  Mission

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
9
SCHEDULE  1
Description  of  the  Project
1.  The objective  of the Project  is to improve  the reliability  and efficiency  of
electricity  supply  in Greater  Dhaka  and  the  western  zone  within  the  territory  of  the Borrower.
The  Project  shall  comprise:
(a) the  construction  and  commissioning  of (i) 22 km of 400  kV  transmission
lines;  (ii) 9 km of 230 kV transmission  lines; (iii) 9 km of 132 kV
underground  cabling;  and (iv) 3 indoor  GIS substations  with a total
capacity  of 4,450  MVA  in Greater  Dhaka;
(b) the  construction  and  commissioning  of (i)135  km of 230  kV  transmission
lines;  (ii) 233  km  of 132  kV transmission  lines;  and (iii)  12 GIS
substations  with  a total  capacity  of  3,070  MVA  and  20 bay  extensions  in
existing  9 substations  in the  western  zone;  and
enhancement  of PGCB's  financial  capacity  through  (i) supporting
installation  and operation  of an enterprise  resource  planning  system;
and (ii) establishing  a Drone  Inspection  Center  within  the Operations
and Maintenance  Department  of PGCB.
The  Project  is expected  to be completed  by 30 June  2024.

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
10
SCHEDULE  2
Amortization  Schedule
1.  The  following  table  sets  forth  the  Principal  Payment  Dates  of the  Loan  and the
percentage  of  the  total  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  payable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date
(Installment  Share).  If the  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  have  been  fully  withdrawn  as of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the Loan  repayable  by the  Borrower  on each
Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be determined  by ADB  by multiplying  (a) the total  principal
amount  of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding  as of the  first  Principal  Payment  Date;  by (b)
the Installment  Share  for each  Principal  Payment  Date, such repayment  amount  to be
adjusted,  as necessary,  to deduct  any  amounts  referred  to in paragraph  4 of  this  Schedule,  to
which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.
Payment  Due  Date
5 April  2025
5 0ctober  2025
5 April  2026
5 0ctober  2026
5 April  2027
5 0ctober  2027
5 April  2028
5 0ctober  2028
5 April  2029
5 0ctober  2029
5 April  2030
5 0ctober  2030
5 April  2031
5 0ctober  2031
5 April  2032
5 0ctober  2032
5 April  2033
5 0ctober  2033
5 April  2034
5 0ctober  2034
5 April  2035
5 0ctober  2035
5 April  2036
5 0ctober  2036
5 April  2037
5 0ctober  2037
5 April  2038
5 0ctober  2038
5 April  2039
5 0ctober  2039
5 April  2040
5 0ctober  2040
Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a %)
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
11
Schedule  2
Payment  Due  Date
5 April  2041
5 0ctober  2041
5 April  2042
5 0ctober  2042
5 April  2043
5 0ctober  2043
5 April  2044
5 0ctober  2044
Total
Installment  Share
(Expressed  as a %)
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
2.500000
100.000000
2. If the proceeds  of the Loan  shall  not have  been  fully  withdrawn  as of the  first
Principal  Payment  Date,  the  principal  amount  of the Loan  repayable  by the  Borrower  on each
Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be determined  as follows:
(a) to the  extent  that  any  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  have  been  withdrawn
as of the first  Principal  Payment  Date,  the Borrower  shall  repay  the
amount  withdrawn  and outstanding  as of such  date  in accordance  with
paragraph  1 of this  Schedule;  and
(b) any withdrawal  made  affer  the first  Principal  Payment  Date  shall  be
repaid  on each  Principal  Payment  Date  falling  after  the date  of such
withdrawal  in amounts  determined  by ADB  by multiplying  the  amount  of
each  such  withdrawal  by a fraction,  the numerator  of  which  shall  be the
original  Installment  Share  specified  in the  table  in paragraph  'I of this
Schedule  for said Principal  Payment  Date (the Original  Installment
Share)  and  the  denominator  of which  shall  be the sum  of all remaining
Original  Installment  Shares  for Principal  Payment  Dates  falling  on or
after  such  date,  such  repayment  amounts  to be adjusted,  as necessary,
to deduct  any  amounts  referred  to in paragraph  4 of this  Schedule,  to
which  a Currency  Conversion  applies.
3. Withdrawals  made  within  2 calendar  months  prior  to any Principal  Payment
Date  shall,  for  the  purposes  solely  of  calculating  the  principal  amounts  payable  on any  Principal
Payment  Date,  be treated  as withdrawn  and outstanding  on the second  Principal  Payment
Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal  and  shall  be repayable  on each  Principal  Payment  Date
commencing  with  the  second  Principal  Payment  Date  following  the  date  of withdrawal
4.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of paragraphs  1 and  2 of this  Schedule,  upon  a
Currency  Conversion  of all or any  portion  of the  withdrawn  principal  amount  of the Loan  to an
Approved  Currency,  the amount  so converted  in said Approved  Currency  that shall be
repayable  on any Principal  Payment  Date  occurring  during  the Conversion  Period,  shall  be
determined  by ADB  by multiplying  such  amount  in its currency  of denomination  immediately
prior  to said  Conversion  by either  (a) the  exchange  rate  that  reflects  the  amounts  of principal
in said  Approved  Currency  payable  by ADB  under  the  Currency  Hedge  Transaction  relating  to
said  Conversion;  or (b) if ADB  so determines  in accordance  with  the  Conversion  Guidelines,
the  exchange  rate  component  of  the  Screen  Rate.

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
12
Schedule  2
5. If the  principal  amount  of  the  Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding  from  time  to time
shall  be denominated  in more  than  one Loan  Currency,  the provisions  of this  Schedule  shall
apply  separately  to the amount  denominated  in each  Loan  Currency,  so as to produce  a
separate  amortization  schedule  for  each  such  amount.

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
13
SCHEDULE  3
Allocation  and  Withdrawal  of  Loan  Proceeds
General
1.  The table  attached  to this Schedule  sets  forth  the Categories  of items  of
expenditure  to be financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  and the allocation  of the Loan
proceeds  to each  such  Category  ("Table").  (Reference  to "Category"  in this  Schedule  is to a
Category  of  the  Table).
Basis  for  Withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account
2. Except  as ADB may  otherwise  agree,  the proceeds  of the Loan  shall be
allocated  to items  of expenditure,  and  disbursed  on the  basis  of  the  withdrawal  percentage  for
each  item  of expenditure  set  forth  in the  Table.
Interest
3. The  amount  allocated  to Category  "Interest"  is for  financing  interest  on the  Loan
during  the implementation  period  of the Project.  ADB  shall  be entitled  to withdraw  from  the
Loan  Account  and pay to itself,  on behalf  of the Borrower,  the amounts  required  to meet
payments,  when  due,  of such  interest.
Reallocation
4.  Notwithstanding  the  allocation  of  Loan  proceeds  and  the  withdrawal
percentages  set  forth  in the  Table,
(a) if the amount  of the Loan  allocated  to any Category  appears  to be
insufficient  to finance  all agreed  expenditures  in that  Category,  ADB
may,  by notice  to the Borrower,  (i) reallocate  to such  Category,  to the
extent  required  to meet  the estimated  shortfall,  amounts  of the Loan
which  have  been  allocated  to another  Category  but, in the opinion  of
ADB,  are not needed  to meet  other  expenditures,  and (ii) if such
reallocation  cannot  fully  meet  the  estimated  shortfall,  reduce  the
withdrawal  percentage  applicable  to such  expenditures  in order  that
further  withdrawals  under  such  Category  may  continue  until  all
expenditures  thereunder  shall  have  been  made;  and
(b)  if the  amount  of the  Loan  allocated  to any  Category  appears  to exceed
all agreed  expenditures  in that  Category,  ADB  may,  by notice  to the
Borrower,  reallocate  such  excess  amount  to any  other  Category.
Disbursement  Procedures
5. Except  as ADB  may  otherwise  agree,  the  Loan  proceeds  shall  be disbursed  in
accordance  with  the  Loan  Disbursement  Handbook.

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
14
Schedule  3
Retroactive  Financinq
6. Withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  may  be  made  to  finance  eligible
expenditures  incurred  under  the Project  before  the Effective  Date, but not earlier  than  12
months  before  the date  of this Loan  Agreement  in connection  with Goods,  Works  and
Consulting  Services,  subject  to a maximum  amount  equivalent  to 20%  of  the Loan  amount.

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
15
Attachment  to Schedule  3
TABLE
ALLOCATION  AND  WITHDRAWAL  OF LOAN  PROCEEDS
Number Item
Total  Amount  Allocated
for  ADB  Financing
(€)
Basis  for  Withdrawal  from  the
Loan  Account
Category
1 Turnkey  contracts
(Packages  1,2,3,4,6) 232,87  4,000 1 00%  of total  expenditure  claimed"
2 ERP  system 5,790,000 1 00%  of  total  expenditure  claimed"
3 Consulting  Services 580,000 1 00%  of  total  expenditure  claimed"
4 Interest  during
construction
22,141  ,000 1 00%  of amounts  due
5 Unallocated/
contingencies 10,453,000
TOTAL 271,838,000
"Exclusive  of taxes  and duties  imposed  within  the territory  of the Borrower.

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
16
SCHEDULE  4
Execution  of  Project;  Financial  Matters
Implementation  Arranqements
1.  The Borrower  and PGCB  shall ensure  that  the Project  is implemented  in
accordance  with  the  detailed  arrangements  set  forth  in the PAM.  Any  subsequent  change  to
the  PAM  shall  become  effective  only  affer  approval  of such  change  by the  Borrower  and  ADB.
In the  event  of  any  discrepancy  between  the PAM  and  this  Loan  Agreement,  the  provisions  of
this  Loan  Agreement  shall  prevail.
Counterpart  Support
2. The Borrower  shall make  available,  through  budgetary  allocations  or other
means,  all counterpart  funds  required  for  the  timely  and  effective  implementation  of  the  Project,
including  funds  required  under  any  Works  contract  or other  contract  or to mitigate  unforeseen
environmental,  resettlement  and  other  social  impacts,  and  to meet  additional  costs  arising  from
design  changes,  financing  gaps,  price  escalation  in construction  costs  or other  unforeseen
circumstances.
Communications  and  Coordination
3. The  Borrower  shall ensure  that (a) all ministries,  agencies  and divisions
involved  in the  implementation  of the  Project  give  their  full cooperation  to ensure  the smooth
and  timely  implementation  of the  Project;  and  (b) PGCB  receives  full cooperation  and  support
in obtaining  any  licenses,  permits  or approvals  required  for  the Project.
Operation  and  Maintenance
4. The Borrower  shall allocate,  on an annual  basis,  funds  required  for the
operations  and  maintenance  of the  Project  facilities  and  ensure  that  such  funds  are released
to PGCB  in a timely  manner.
Operational  and  Resource  Planninq  Covenants
5. The  Borrower  shall  cause  PGCB  to develop  a detailed  time  bound  action  plan
to (a) address  all material  external  audit  qualifications  raised  in the  2017-2018  audited  financial
statement  report;  and (b) implement  the enterprise  resource  planning  system  referred  to in
sub-para.  2(c)  of Schedule  1 to this  Loan  Agreement  by no later  than  31 December  2019.
6. The  Borrower  shall  (a) ensure  that  PGCB  files  a tariff  application  at least  once
a year  to ensure  PGCB's  financial  sustainability;  and (b) request  and  require  the Bangladesh
Energy  Regulatory  Commission  to review  such tariff  applications  in a timely  manner  in
accordance  with  the  Bangladesh  Energy  Regulatory  Commission  Act,  2003  (as  amended  from
time  to time).
Procurement
7. The  Borrower  shall  cause  PGCB  to ensure  that:

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
17
Schedule  4
(a)  the  procurement  of Goods,  Works  and Services  is carried  out in
accordance  with  the  Procurement  Policy  and  the  Procurement
Regulations;
(b) Goods,  Works  and Services  shall  be procured  based  on the detailed
arrangements  set  forth  in the  Procurement  Plan,  including  the
procurement  and  selection  methods,  the  type  of  bidding  documents,  and
ADB's  review  requirements.  The Borrower  may modify  the detailed
arrangements  set forth  in the Procurement  Plan only  with the prior
agreement  of ADB,  and such  modifications  must  be set out in updates
to the  Procurement  Plan;  and
(C) (i) all Goods  and Works  procured  and Services  obtained  (including  all
computer  hardware,  sofiware  and  systems,  whether  separately
procured  or incorporated  within  other  goods  and services  procured)  do
not  violate  or infringe  any  industrial  property  or intellectual  property  right
or claim  of any  third  party;  and (ii) all contracts  for  the procurement  of
Goods,  Works  and  Services  contain  appropriate  representations
warranties  and,  if appropriate,  indemnities  from  the  contractor,  supplier,
consultant  or service  provider  with  respect  to the  matters  referred  to in
this  subparagraph
8. The  Borrower  shall  cause  PGCB  to not  award  any  Works  contracts  that  involves
environmental  impacts  until:
(a)  the Borrower's  Department  of Environment  has  granted  its approval  of
the  final  IEE;  and
(b)  the  Borrower  has  incorporated  the  relevant  provisions  from  the  EMP  into
the  Works  contract.
9. The Borrower  shall cause  PGCB  to not award  any Works  contract  which
involves  involuntary  resettlement  impacts  until  the  PGCB  has  prepared  and submitted  to ADB
the  final  RP based  on the  Project's  detailed  design  and  obtained  ADB's  clearance  of such  RP.
Environment
10.  The  Borrower  shall  or shall  cause  PGCB  to ensure  that  the  preparation,  design,
construction,  implementation,  operation  and decommissioning  of the Project  and all Project
facilities  comply  with (a) all applicable  laws and regulations  of the Borrower  relating  to
environment,  health,  and safety;  (b) the Environmental  Safeguards;  (c) all measures  and
requirements  set forth  in the IEE, EMP  and CAP,  and any  corrective  or preventative  actions
set  forth  in a Safeguards  Monitoring  Report.
Land  Acquisition  and  Involuntary  Resettlement
11.  The  Borrower  shall  or shall  cause  PGCB  to ensure  that  all land  and  all rights-
of-way  required  for  the Project  are  made  available  to the  Works  contractor  in accordance  with
the  schedule  agreed  under  the  related  Works  contract  and  all land  acquisition  and  resettlement

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
18
Schedule  4
activities  are implemented  in compliance  with  (a) all applicable  laws  and regulations  of the
Borrower  relating  to  land  acquisition  and  involuntary  resettlement;  (b) the  Involuntary
Resettlement  Safeguards;  and  (c) all measures  and requirements  set  forth  in the  RP, and  any
corrective  or preventative  actions  set  forth  in the  Safeguards  Monitoring  Report.
12.  Without  limiting  the  application  of the Involuntary  Resettlement  Safeguards  or
the RP, the Borrower  shall  or shall  cause  PGCB  to ensure  that  no physical  or economic
displacement  takes  place  in connection  with  the  Project  until:
(a)  compensation  and other  entitlements  have  been  provided  to affected
people  in accordance  with  the  RP; and
(b)  a comprehensive  income  and livelihood  restoration  program  has been
established  in accordance  with  the  RP.
Tribes,  Minor  Races,  Ethnic  Sects  and  Communities
13.  The  Borrower  shall  or shall  cause  PGCB  to ensure  that  the Project  does  not
have  any  Tribes,  Minor  Races,  Ethnic  Sects  and Communities  Safeguards  impacts.  If the
Project  does  have  any  such  impacts,  the  Borrower  shall  cause  PGCB  to take  all steps  required
to ensure  that  the Project  complies  with  the applicable  laws  and regulations  of the  Borrower
and  with  the  SPS.
Human  and  Financial  Resources  to Implement  Safequards  Requirements
14.  The  Borrower  shall  make  available  or  cause  PGCB  to  make  available
necessary  budgetary  and  human  resources  to fully  implement  the  EMP  and  the  CAP.
Safequards  Related  Provisions  in Biddinq  Documents  and  Works  Contracts
15.  The  Borrower  shall  or shall  cause  PGCB  to ensure  that  all bidding  documents
and  contracts  for  Works  contain  provisions  that  require  contractors  to:
(a) comply  with  the  measures  relevant  to the  contractor  set  forth  in the  IEE,
the  EMP,  the  CAP,  and the RP (to the  extent  they  concern  impacts  on
affected  people  during  construction),  and  any  corrective  or preventative
actions  set forth  in a Safeguards  Monitoring  Report;
(b)  make  available  a budget  for  all  such  environmental  and  social
measures;
(C) provide  the  Borrower  and  PGCB  with  a written  notice  of  any
unanticipated  environmental,  resettlement  or tribes,  minor  races,  ethnic
sects  and  communities  risks  or impacts  that  arise  during  construction,
implementation  or operation  of the Project  that  were  not  considered  in
the  IEE,  the  EMP  and  the  RP;

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
19
Schedule  4
(d)  adequately  record  the condition  of roads,  agricultural  land and other
infrastructure  prior  to starting  to transport  materials  and construction;
and
(e)  reinstate  pathways,  other  local  infrastructure,  and  agricultural  land  to at
least  their  pre-project  condition  upon  the  completion  of construction
Safequards  Monitorinq  and Reportinq
16. The  Borrower  shall  do the  following  or shall  cause  PGCB  to do the  following:
(a)  submit  semi-annual  Safeguards  Monitoring  Reports  to  ADB  and
disclose  relevant  information  from such reports  to affected  persons
promptly  upon  submission;
(b) if any  unanticipated  environmental  and/or  social  risks  and  impacts  arise
during  construction,  implementation  or operation  of  the  Project  that  were
not  considered  in the  IEE,  the  EMP  and  the  RP, promptly  inform  ADB  of
the  occurrence  of such  risks  or impacts,  with  detailed  description  of  the
event  and  proposed  corrective  action  plan;
(C) no later  than  90 days  after  the Effective  Date,  engage  qualified  and
experienced  external  expert  under  a selection  process  and terms  of
reference  acceptable  to ADB,  to verify  information  produced  through  the
Project  monitoring  process,  and facilitate  the carrying  out of any
verification  activities  by such  external  experts;
(d)  report  any  actual  or potential  breach  of compliance  with  the measures
and  requirements  set forth in the  EMP or the  RP promptly  after
becoming  aware  of the breach.
Prohibited  List  of Investments
17.  The  Borrower  shall  and  shall  cause  PGCB  to ensure  that  no proceeds  of the
Loan  are used  to finance  any  activity  included  in the list of prohibited  investment  activities
provided  in Appendix  5 of the  SPS.
Labor  Standards,  Health  and  Safety
18.  The Borrower  shall and shall cause  PGCB  to ensure  that  the core labor
standardsand  the  Borrower's  applicable  laws  and  regulations  are  complied  with  during  Project
implementation.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  PGCB  to include  specific  provisions  in the  bidding
documents  and contracts  financed  by ADB  under  the Project  requiring  that  the contractors,
among  other  things:  (a) comply  with  the Borrower's  applicable  labor  law  and regulations  and
incorporate  applicable  workplace  occupational  safety  norms;  (b) do not use  child  labor;  (c) do
not  discriminate  workers  in respect  of  employment  and  occupation;  (d) do not  use  forced  labor;
(e) allow  freedom  of association  and effectively  recognize  the right  to collective  bargaining;
and (f) disseminate,  or engage  appropriate  service  providers  to disseminate,  information  on
the  risks  of sexually  transmitted  diseases,  including  HIV/AIDS,  to the  employees  of  contractors

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
20
Schedule  4
engaged  under  the Project  and  to members  of the  local  communities  surrounding  the  Project
area,  particularly  women.
19.  The  Borrower  shall cause  PGCB  to strictly  monitor  compliance  with the
requirements  set  forth  in paragraph  17  above  and  provide  ADB  with  regular  reports.
Governance  and  Anticorruption
20.  The  Borrower  and PGCB  shall  (a) comply  with  ADB's  Anticorruption  Policy
(1998,  as amended  to date)  and acknowledge  that  ADB  reserves  the right  to investigate
directly,  or through  its agents,  any  alleged  corrupt,  fraudulent,  collusive  or coercive  practice
relating  to the  Project;  and (b) cooperate  with  any  such  investigation  and  extend  all necessary
assistance  for  satisfactory  completion  of such  investigation.
2'l.  The  Borrower  and PGCB  shall ensure  that the anticorruption  provisions
acceptable  to ADB  are included  in all bidding  documents  and contracts,  including  provisions
specifying  the  right  of ADB  to audit  and examine  the  records  and accounts  of the  executing
and implementing  agencies  and all contractors,  suppliers,  consultants,  and other  service
providers  as they  relate  to the  Project.