EXTRACT FROM RETAINED ORIGINAL. Page numbering is PDF page, not printed page.
--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
LOAN  AGREEMENT
(Ordinary  Operations)
LOAN  AGREEMENT  dated  11  December  2019  between  PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC  OF BANGLADESH  ("Borrower")  and  ASIAN  DEVELOPMENT  BANK  ("ADB").
WHEREAS
(A)  the Borrower  has applied  to ADB  for a loan  for  the purposes  of the
Project  described  in Schedule  1 to this  Loan  Agreement;
(B)  the Borrower  has a(so applied  to the  Asian  Infrastructure  Investment
Bank ("AIIB") for  a loan  in an amount of two hundred  million  Dollars  ($200,000,000)  ("AIIB
Loan")  for  the  purposes  of cofinancing  expenditures  under  the  Project;
(C)  by a project  co-lenders'  agreement  dated  14 0ctober  2019  between
ADB  and AIIB  ("Cofinancing  Agreement"),  ADB  has agreed  to partially  administer  the AIIB
Loan  on the  terms  and  conditions  set  out  in the Cofinancing  Agreement;
(D)  the  Borrower  intends  to borrow  the  AIIB  Loan  under  a Loan  Agreement
to be entered  into  between  AIIB  and  the  Borrower  (the  "AIIB  Loan  Agreement");
(E)  the  Borrower  has  also  applied  to the  People's  Republic  of China  Poverty
Reduction  and  Regional  Cooperation  Fund  ("PRCF")  for  a grant  in an amount  of seven  hundred
and  fifty thousand  Dollars  ($750,000)  ("Grant"),  to be administered  by ADB,  for  the purposes
of cofinancing  expenditures  under  the  Project;
(F)  by a grant  agreement  of even  date  between  the Borrower  and ADB
("Grant  Agreement"),  ADB  has agreed  to make  the proceeds  of the Grant  available  to the
Borrower  on the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  therein;
(G)  the Project  will be carried  out  by Power  Grid  Company  of Bangladesh
Limited  ("PGCB"),  and  for  this  purpose  the  Borrower  will  make  available  to PGCB  the  proceeds
of the  loan  provided  for  herein  upon  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to ADB;  and
(H)  ADB  has agreed  to make  a loan  to the Borrower  from  ADB's  ordinary
capital  resources  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  herein  and  in the  Project  Agreement
of even  date  herewith  between  ADB  and PGCB;
NOW  THEREFORE  the  parties  hereto  agree  as follows:
ARTICLE  I
Loan  Regulations;  Definitions
Section  1.01.  All the provisions  of ADB's  Ordinary  Operations  Loan
Regulations,  dated  1 January  2017  ("Loan  Regulations"),  are hereby  made  applicab!e  to this
Loan  Agreement  with  the  same  force  and  effect  as if they  were  fully  set forth  herein.

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
3
updated  from  time  to  time  in accordance  with  the  respective
administrative  procedures  of the  Borrower  and  ADB;
(o)  "Procurement  Policy"  means  ADB's  Procurement  Policy  - Goods,
Works,  Nonconsulting  and  Consulting  Services  (2017,  as amended  from
time  to time);
(p) "Procurement  Plan"  means  the procurement  plan  for  the Project  dated
9 September  2019  and agreed  between  the Borrower  and ADB,  as
updated  from  time  to time  in accordance  with  the Procurement  Policy,
the Procurement  Regulations,  and other  arrangements  agreed  with
ADB:
(q)  "Procurement  Regulations"  means  ADB's  Procurement  Regulations  for
ADB  Borrowers  - Goods,  Works,  Nonconsulting  and  Consulting
Services  (2017,  as amended  from  time  to time);
"Project  Executing  Agency"  for  the  purposes  of, and  within  the  meaning
of the Loan  Regulations  means  PGCB,  which  is responsible  for the
carrying  out  of the  Project;
(s)  "Project  facilities"  means  the  facilities  to be improved,  constructed  or
provided  under  the  Project;
"RP"  means  the  resettlement  plan  for  the  Project,  including  any  update
thereto,  prepared  and  submitted  by the  Borrower  and cleared  by ADB;
(u) "Safeguards  Monitoring  Report"  means  each report  prepared  and
submitted  by  the  Borrower  to  ADB that describes  progress  with
implementation  of and compliance  with  the  EMP,  CAP,  and  the  RP (as
applicable),  including  any  corrective  and  preventative  actions;
(v)  "Services"  means  Consulting  Services  and  Nonconsulting  Services;
(w)  "SPS"  means  ADB's  Safeguard  Policy  Statement  (2009);
(x)  "Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between  the
Borrower  and  PGCB  referred  to  in Section  3.01(a)  of this Loan
Agreement;  and
(y) "Works"  means  construction  or civil  works  as set  out  in the  Procurement
Plan  and to be financed  out of the proceeds  of the Loan  and Grant,
including  any  related  Nonconsulting  Services  and  project  related
services  that  are provided  as part  of a single  responsibility  or turnkey
contract.

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
4
ARTICLE  El
The  Loan
Section  2.01.  (a)  ADB  agrees  to lend  to the Borrower  from  ADB's
ordinary  capital  resources  an amount  of  two  hundred  seventy-one  million  eight  hundred  thirty-
eight  thousand  Euros  (€ 271,838,000),  as such  amount  may  be converted  from  time  to time
through  a Currency  Conversion  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Section  2.06  of this  Loan
Agreement.
(b)  The  Loan  has a principal  repayment  period  of 20 years,  and a grace
period  as defined  in subsection  (c) hereinaffer.
(c)  The  term  "grace  period"  as used  in subsection  (b) hereinabove  means
the period  prior  to the first Principal  Payment  Date in accordance  with the amortization
schedule  set  forth  in Schedule  2 to this  Loan  Agreement.
Section  2.02.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to ADB  interest  on the principal
amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding  from  time  to time  at a rate  for  each  Interest
Period  equal  to the  sum  of:
(a)  Euribor;
(b)  0.60%  as provided  by Section  3.02  ofthe  Loan  Regulations  less  a credit
of O.1 0% as provided  by Section  3.03  of  the  Loan  Regulations;  and
(c)  a maturity  premium  of O.10%  as provided  by Section  3.03  of the Loan
Regulations.
Section  2.03.  The  Borrower  shall  pay a commitment  charge  of O.15%
per  annum.  Such  charge  shall  accrue  on the  full amount  of the  Loan  (less  amounts  withdrawn
from  time  to time),  commencing  60 days  after  the  date  of  this  Loan  Agreement.
Section  2.04.  Interest  and other  charges  on the  Loan  shall  be payable
semiannually  on 15  April  and  15 0ctober  in each  year.
Section  2.05.  The Borrower  shall  repay  the principal  amount  of the
Loan  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Schedule  2 to this
Loan  Agreement.
Section  2.06.  (a)  The  Borrower  may  at any  time  request  any  of the
following  Conversions  of  the  terms  of the  Loan  in order  to facilitate  prudent  debt  management:
(i)
(ii)
a change  of the Loan  Currency  of all or any portion  of the
principal  amount  of  the  Loan,  whether  withdrawn  and
outstanding  or unwithdrawn,  to an Approved  Currency;
a change  of  the  interest  rate  basis  applicable  to all or any  portion
of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding
from  a Floating  Rate  to a Fixed  Rate,  or vice  versa;  and

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
5
(iii) the  setting  of limits  on the Floating  Rate  applicable  to all or any
portion  of the principal  amount  of the Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding  by the establishment  of an Interest  Rate Cap  or
Interest  Rate  Collar  on said  Floating  Rate.
(b)  Any  conversion  requested  pursuant  to subsection  (a) hereinabove  that
is accepted  by ADB  shall  be considered  a "Conversion",  as defined  in Section  2.01(f)  of the
Loan  Regulations,  and shall  be effected  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of Article  V of the
Loan  Regulations  and  the  Conversion  Guidelines.
ARTiCLE  Ill
Use  of  Proceeds  of  the  Loan
Section  3.01.  (a)  The Borrower  shall relend  the proceeds  of the
Loan  to  PGCB  under  a Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement  upon terms  and conditions
satisfactory  to ADB.
(b)  The Borrower  shall cause  the proceeds  of the Loan  to be applied
exclusively  to the  financing  of expenditures  on the  Project  in accordance  with  the  provisions  of
this  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement.
Section  3.02.  The  proceeds  of the  Loan  shall  be  allocated  and
withdrawn  in accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  3 to this  Loan  Agreement,  as such
Schedule  may  be amended  from  time  to time  by agreement  between  the  Borrower  and  ADB.
Section  3.03.  Except  as ADB  may  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall
procure,  or cause  to be procured,  the  items  of expenditure  to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds
of the  Loan  in accordance  with  the provisions  of Schedule  4 to this  Loan  Agreement.
Section  3.04.  The  Loan  Closing  Date  for  the  purposes  of Section  9.02
of the  Loan  Regulations  shall  be 31 December  2024  or such  other  date  as may  from  time  to
time  be agreed  between  the  Borrower  and  ADB.
ARTICLE  IV
Particular  Covenants
Section  4.01.  In the carrying  out of the Project  and operation  of the
Project  facilities,  the  Borrower  shall  perform,  or cause  to be performed,  all obligations  set  forth
in Schedule  4 to this  Loan  Agreement  and  the  Project  Agreement.
Section  4.02.  The  Borrower  shall enable  ADB's  representatives  to
inspect  the  Project,  the  Goods,  Works  and  Services,  and  any  relevant  records  and  documents.

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
6
Section4.03.  ADB  shall  disclose  the  annual  audited  financial
statements  for  the  Project  and  the  opinion  of  the  auditors  on the  financial  statements  within  14
days  of  the  date  of ADB's  confirmation  of their  acceptability  by posting  them  on ADB's  website.
Section  4.04.  The  Borrower  shall take  all  actions  which  shall  be
necessary  on its part  to enable  PGCB  to perform  its obligations  under  the  Project  Agreement,
and shall  not  take  or permit  any  action  which  would  interfere  with  the performance  of such
obligations.
Section  4.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise  its rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement  in such  a manner  as to protect  the  interests  of the  Borrower
and  ADB  and  to accomp!ish  the  purposes  of the  Loan.
(b)  NorightsorobligationsundertheSubsidiaryFinancingAgreementshall
be assigned,  amended,  abrogated  or waived  without  the  prior  concurrence  of  ADB.
ARTICLE  V
Suspension;  Acceleration  of  Maturity
Section  5.01.  The following  are  specified  as  additional  events  for
suspension  of the right  of the Borrower  to make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  for  the
purposes  of Section  9.01(m)  of the  Loan  Regulations:
(a)  the  Borrower  shall  have  failed  to perform  one  or more  of its obligations
under  the  AIIB  Loan  Agreement  or the  Grant  Agreement;  or
(b)  the AIIB  Loan  or Grant  shall have  become  liable  for suspension  or
cancellation  for  any  reason  whatsoever.
Section  5.02.  The following  is specified  as an additional  event  for
acceleration  of  maturity  for  the  purposes  of Section  9.07(a)(iv)  of  the  Loan  Regulations:  any  of
the  events  specified  in Section  5.01 of this  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  occurred.
ARTICLE  Vl
Effectiveness
Section  6.01.  The  following  are  specified  as additional  conditions  to the
effectiveness  of this Loan Agreement  for the purposes  of Section  10.01(f)  of the Loan
Regulations:
(a) the  AIIB  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  been  duly  executed  and  delivered
on  behalf  of the  Borrower,  and  all  conditions  precedent  to  its
effectiveness  (other  than  a condition  requiring  the  effectiveness  of this
Loan  Agreement)  shall  have  been  fulfilled  or arrangements  satisfactory
