
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
 
Document of 
The World Bank 
 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
Report No: PGD229  
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
 
PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR  
 
A PROPOSED CONCESSIONAL CREDIT  
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 77.0 MILLION (US$108.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)  
 
AND A PROPOSED NON-CONCESSIONAL CREDIT  
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$291.4 MILLION  
 
TO 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
FOR THE 
 
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) 
Development Policy Operation (DPO) 
November 13, 2020 
 
 
Social Protection & Jobs Global Practice 
South Asia Region 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official 
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 
 
 
  
 . 
 Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized


--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
 
(India)  
 
Republic of India 
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR 
April 1 –March 31 
 
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 26,2020) 
74 Indian Rupees (INR)= US$1.00 
 
   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
 
ADB Asian Development Bank MHA Ministry of Home Affairs 
AFD Agence Francaise de Developpement MIS Management Information System 
APY Atal Pension Yojana MOF Ministry of Finance 
BC Business Correspondent MTEF Medium-Term Expenditure 
Framework 
CAG Comptroller and Auditor General of 
India 
NDMA National Disaster Management 
Authority 
CCT Conditional Cash Transfers NFSA National Food Security Act 
CMIE Center for Monitoring the Indian 
Economy 
NIPFP National Institute of Public 
Finance and Policy 
COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease 2019 NPA Non-performing Assets 
CPF Country Partnership Framework NSAP National Social Assistance 
Program 
CPGRAMS Centralized Public Grievance Redress 
and Monitoring System 
PDS Public Distribution System 
DBT Direct Benefit Transfer PEFA Public Expenditure and Financial 
Assessment 
DFS Department of Financial Services PER Public Expenditure Review 
EPFO Employees' Provident Fund 
Organisation 
PFMS Public Financial Management 
System 
EPF Employee Provident Fund PMGKAY Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann 
Yojana 
FPS Fair Price Shops PMGKY Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan 
Yojana 
FRBM Fiscal Responsibility and Budget 
Management Act 
PMJDY Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana 
GDP Gross Domestic Product PMJJBY Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima 
Yojana 
GFS Government Finance Statistics PM-KSN Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman 
Nidhi 
GNP Gross National Product PMSBY Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima 
Yojana 
GOI Government of India PMUY Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
GRS Grievance Redress Service SCD Systematic Country Diagnostic 
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development 
SDR Special Drawing Rights 
IDA International Development Association SDRF State Disaster Response Funds 
IFC International Finance Corporation SFC State Food Corporations 
IMF International Monetary Fund SP Social Protection 
JBSY Janani Baal Suraksha Yojana TPDS Targeted Public Distribution 
System 
KfW Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau UCCT Unconditional Cash Transfer 
LDP Letter of Development Policy UT Union Territory 
MAPS Methodology for Assessing Public 
Procurement Systems 
WB World Bank 
MGNREGS Mahatma Gandhi National Rural 
Employment Guarantee Scheme 
WBG World Bank Group 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 . 
Regional Vice President: Hartwig Schafer 
Country Director: Junaid Kamal Ahmad 
Regional Director: Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz 
Practice Manager: Stefano Paternostro 
Task Team Leaders: Qaiser M. Khan, Shrayana Bhattacharya  

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
 Page 1  
 
REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
SECOND ACCELERATING INDIA'S COVID-19 SOCIAL PROTECTION RESPONSE (PMGKY) 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED FINANCING AND PROGRAM ................................ ................................ .......2 
1. INTRODUCTION AND COUNTRY CONTEXT ................................ ................................ ...................4 
2. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK ................................ ................................ .................. 14 
2.1. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS .......................................................................................... 14 
2.2. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................ 16 
2.3. IMF RELATIONS ............................................................................................................................ 22 
3. GOVERNMENT PROGRAM ................................ ................................ ................................ ........ 23 
4. PROPOSED OPERATION ................................ ................................ ................................ ............ 24 
4.1. LINK TO GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND OPERATION DESCRIPTION .......................................... 24 
4.2. PRIOR ACTIONS, RESULTS AND ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS .................................................. 24 
4.3. LINK TO CPF, OTHER BANK OPERATIONS AND THE WBG STRATEGY .......................................... 37 
4.4. CONSULTATIONS AND COLLABORATION WITH DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS ............................... 38 
5. OTHER DESIGN AND APPRAISAL ISSUES ................................ ................................ .................... 38 
5.1. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT .................................................................................................... 38 
5.2. ENVIRONMENTAL, FORESTS, AND OTHER NATURAL RESOURCE ASPECTS ................................. 40 
5.3. PFM, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ASPECTS .......................................................................... 41 
5.4. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY .................................................................. 43 
6. SUMMARY OF RISKS AND MITIGATION ................................ ................................ ..................... 44 
ANNEX 1: POLICY AND RESULTS MATRIX ................................ ................................ ..........................  47 
ANNEX 2: FUND RELATIONS ANNEX ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 53 
ANNEX 3: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ................................ ................................ ..................... 55 
ANNEX 4: ENVIRONMENT AND POVERTY/SOCIAL ANALYSIS TABLE  ................................ .................. 56 
ANNEX 5: CLIMATE CO-BENEFITS ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 60 
 
 
The Second Accelerating India's  COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY)  was prepared by a team led by Shrayana 
Bhattacharya and Qaiser Khan and including Ambrish Shahi, Mehul Jain, Anup Karanth, Ornsaran Pomme Manuamorn, Sutirtha 
Sinha Roy, Sheena Arora, Rocio Malpica, Helene Bertaud, Ritu Sharma, Toni Koleva, Aurelien Kruse, , Anindo Chatterjee, Philip O 
Keefe, Camilla Holmemo, Victor Ordonez, Manoj Jain, Deepak Singh, Krishna Raj and Satyanarayan Panda.   

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 2  
     
 
     
 
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED FINANCING AND PROGRAM 
 
BASIC INFORMATION 
 
Project ID Programmatic If programmatic, position in series 
P174027 Yes 2nd in a series of 2 
 
Proposed Development Objective(s) 
The proposed operation is the second of a series of two to strengthen the capability of state and national governments 
in India to providecoordinated and adequate social protection to the poor and vulnerable from the shocks triggered 
by the COVID-19 
pandemic 
Organizations 
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF INDIA 
Implementing Agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS  
 
PROJECT FINANCING DATA (US$, Millions) 
 
 SUMMARY  
Total Financing 400.00 
 
 DETAILS  
     International Development Association (IDA) 400.00 
          IDA Credit 400.00 
 
INSTITUTIONAL DATA 
Climate Change and Disaster Screening 
This operation has been screened for short and long -term climate change and disaster risks  
Overall Risk Rating 
Substantial 
 
    .

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 3  
     
 
Results 
 
Indicator Name Baseline Target 
Adequacy of benefits provided through the COVID-19 Social Protection 
Support Program measured by Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana 
(PMGKY) transfers as a percent share of total household consumption 
expenditures for the poorest quintile in India. 
0(2020) 40% (2022) 
Coverage of benefits provided through the COVID-19 Social Protection 
Support Program measured by share of bottom 40 percent (consumption 
percentiles) receiving at least one PMGKY social assistance (food/cash) 
benefit. 
0 (2020)1 60% (2022) 
 
Gender-sensitive program coverage measured by share of female-headed 
households in bottom 40 percent (consumption percentiles) receiving at 
least one PMGKY social assistance (food/cash) benefit.  
0(2020) 70% (2022) 
Access to health insurance measures provided through the COVID-19 
Social Protection Program measured by percentage share of essential 
service workers covered by the Special Health Insurance Scheme. 
0 (2020) 15% (2022) 
Access to support provided through the COVID-19 Social Protection 
Program for informal workers measured by percentage share of informal 
workers receiving at least one social protection benefit. 
10% (2020) 33% (2022) 
Gender-sensitive program coverage measured by proportion of female 
informal workers in total beneficiary pool of social protection in India 
 
NA (2020) 40% (2022) 
Migrant-neutrality of India’s social protection system measured as the 
percentage of states implementing ‘One-Nation-One-Ration’ for portable 
PDS access 
0 (2020) 
 
 
40% (2022) 
 
Percentage of households in bottom 40 percent (consumption 
percentiles) in urban areas covered by at least one social protection 
benefit.  
15% (2020) 
 
33% (2022) 
Timeliness of cash-transfers provided through the COVID-19 Social 
Protection Program measured by percentage of bottom 40 percent  
households who have received at least one PMGKY benefit within eight -
week period of program announcement.  
0 (2020) 50% (2021) 
Improved regulatory capacity to preserve groundwater   No pre-existing 
groundwater policy with 
water user fees (2020) 
Codification of groundwater 
policy with water user fees 
concept through 
government rules to state. 
(2022) 
Increase in the cumulative renewable power installed capacity in order 
to meet India’s NDC targets, retain India’s global position on wind and 
solar power and increase employment through renewable energy 
projects.  
85.90 GW (Dec 2019)  
 
172 GW (Dec 2022) 
 
 
1 Zero implies that prior to the announcement of the PMGKY package, the poor and vulnerable groups were not receiving any 
additional entitlements to cope with COVID-19 shocks. 

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 4  
     
 
. 
1. INTRODUCTION AND COUNTRY CONTEXT 
 
1. The proposed operation aims to support India’s response and recovery from the devastating economic impacts 
of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID -19) pandemic, with emphasis on accelerating social assistance through 
adequate safety nets for the poor and vu lnerable. This is the second Development Policy Operation in a programmatic 
series of two operations (for Fiscal Years 2020 and 2021, with an allocation of US$750 million and US$400 million 
respectively). The design draws on lessons from DPO1 and the World Bank’s deep country knowledge on social protection 
in India, gained through technical assistance and analytics over the recent years. The approach is consistent with the 
recent WBG COVID-19 strategy to ‘build back better’ and the India Country Partnership  Framework’s focus on building  
modern systems of social protection , supporting India to shift away from fragmented schemes, and better helping the 
poor and vulnerable weather future shocks and enhance their resilience. Through reforms which improve coordination 
and capacity of government agencies for social protection  delivery, the program aims to expand coverage of benefits 
amongst key vulnerable groups –informal workers, migrants, households in COVID-19 hotspots, regions vulnerable to 
climate shocks and the urban poor.  
 
2. The program utilizes cancelled IDA and crowds in financing and support from biliteral and multilateral 
agencies.  The COVID -19 crisis has triggered a coordinated mobilization of development partners in support of the 
Government of India’s response. This includes parallel financing of 400 million Euros from Agence Francaise de 
Developpement (AFD) and 460 million Euros from the German Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (KfW).  JICA is providing 
3 billion yen following the sa me policy actions as DPO 2. This is in addition to US$1 billion parallel financing from the 
Asian Development Bank (ADB) to the social protection response of GOI. The ADB funds follow the broad contours of the 
matrix but their disbursments are not linked d irectly to the matrix .  ADB will provide additional funding based on this 
proposed social protection program during their next fiscal year which starts January 1, 2021.  
 
3. DPO2 deepens the first development policy operation to help India build a modern and adaptive social 
protection system. The first DPO in the series supported scale-up of pre-existing safety nets to provide emergency relief 
during the lockdown period through a national government program Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana  (see Box 1) . 
Nearly 84% of India’s poorest households received social assistance through reforms supported by DPO1. However, half 
of India’s migrants and urban informal workers were unable to access cash benefits . Between DPO1 and DPO2, India’s 
COVID-19 burden has accelerated rapidly. The country reports the second largest number of cases in the world in October 
2020. While the economy has ‘unlocked’ steadily since  June 2020, households in disease  hot-spots continue to nee d 
additional support due to prolonged containtment measures. The second DPO adresses these gaps and supports 
additional reforms which not only support the provision of emergency support in hot-spots but moves India’s fragmented 
social protection schemes towards an integrated and adaptive system, and starts to tackle many of the existing fault 
lines in the current system around inclusion of migrants, climate -linked disasters, workers in the informal sector, and 
last-mile delivery challenges. 
 
4. The operation is based on Government of India’s overall strategy to fight COVID -19 through three phases.  In 
the first phase, the Government of India (GoI) intervened to tackle the health aspects, the Bank partnered with India 
through a US$ 1 billion health project. In th e second phase, GoI invest ed US$ 23 billion in an extraordinary social 
protection program to bridge the poor and vulnerable communities through the lock down period.  The Bank partnered 
with a Development Policy Financing program of US$ 1.15 billion. Following support for social protection  measures, a 
third phase of the government’s COVID-19 strategy comprised of a US $ 750 million program which provide d economic 

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 5  
     
 
support to micro, small, and medium enterprises and their workers to support them through the lockdown period a s 
part of an economic stimulus. Taken together, India’s three -pronged strategy aims at ensuring that tackling COVID-19 
does not lead to a stark policy choice between lives and livelihoods, thereby forging an approach that seeks to protect 
both. Details on the broader Indian government and WBG COVID -19 response are in paragraph 19 to 22.  
 
Box 1 : India’s Effort to Protect the Vulnerable from COVID-19 Lockdown  
Following the WHO declaration of a global pandemic on March 11, 2020 the national government declared a COVID emergency on 
March 14, 2020 and decided to implement what was initially a 21 -day national lockdown (later extended to 42 days)  on March 21 , 
2020. Recognizing that the national lockdown would severely impact the poor and the vulnerable, the national government launched 
an important and ambitious social protection initiative called the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY).   
 
The PMGKY program is not a new scheme, rather an integrated package scaling up cash and food assistance through pre -existing 
programs which have large outr each and strong delivery mechanisms:  The PMGKY package  costs the Government approximately 
USD 23 billion. It uses India’s well-developed Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system to transfer benefits directly to the bank accounts of 
beneficiaries from the treasury, thereby ensuring timely payments to those in need. The identification of beneficiaries relies on India’s 
near-universal programs, supplemented by digitized Socio-Economic Census data, state level databases and the Aadhaar digital ID 
network. 
 
The reform program provides near-universal and robust support till November 2020; measures may be expanded in specific states 
or clusters depending on how the COVID-19 crisis evolves:  The government scaled up benefits for COVID-19 relief for a three-month 
period only. Following these three months, the next phase of emergency social protection support will be geographically targeted  to 
regions and sectors where lockdowns continue. The social protection program will work in tandem with health surveillance effo rts, 
targeting hot spot districts and clusters. For a three -month period, PMGKY delivered cash transfers to 320 million benefic iary bank 
accounts (30% of India’s population). To ensure supply of food and fuel through the national lockdown, the program provide d 
additional food rations to 234 million households, covering nearly 90% of India; and LPG gas cylinders to 80 million house holds. The 
total transfer size is approximately USD 44 per month, nearly 68% of the Indian rural poverty line and 47% of the average monthly 
consumption expenditure of the poorest quintile of households in Indi a.  The program also topped-up government cont ributions to 
social insurance funds (EPFO) for low-wage workers in small and medium enterprises and provide s portable in-kind and cash support 
to migrants through a sub-national umbrella disaster fund.  
 
DPO2 supports systems and process reforms which address exclusion in the Indian government program for emergency social 
protection (PMGKY) : Early evidence from the first phase of the DPO and PMGKY suggests cash delivery needs to be bolstered, with 
focus on urban areas, informal workers and the unidentified poor.  Between May and August 2020, 84% of India’s bottom 40 percent 
households (based on consumption measures) received at least one benefit under the PMGKY. 78 and 66 percent of rural and urban 
households respectively received food benefits. While food transfers are progressive – 77.5 percent of households in the bottom 40  
received additional food grains -- cash delivery remains ch allenging. Within cash programs, transfers into PMJDY bank accounts 
reached the most families—thereby ensuring women were primary beneficiaries of cash through PMGKY. 72% of women with PMJDY 
accounts received the due transfer. As per the World Bank post lockdown survey data, which will be further validated with 
administrative data, registration in program databases remains a chief constraint in accessing cash – 47 percent of poor households 
are not enrolled or identified within the beneficiary pool of any of the cash-transfer programs under PMGKY –highlighting the rationale 
for additional reforms supported through DPO2 to address exclusion gaps. PMGKY reached socially vulnerable groups --75 per cent of 
female-headed households received food ration benefits. Similarly, at least seven out of ten tribal households received food benefits.  
 
5. This operation draws upon the World Bank’s global and Indian experience on social protection and community-
driven development to help the Government of India link the emergency COVID -19 response with a broader social 
protection and resilience agenda. As described in detail within the DPO1 document, the Bank team has worked closely 

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 6  
     
 
with national and state authorities to understand the strengths and lacuna of existing social protection programs in India 
through partnerships and NLTA with multiple state governments, national DBT Mission, academics, CBOs and Indian 
think-tanks.  While the financial contribution of the World Bank to the Government Program is small, the operation aims 
to leverage this deep country knowledge to invest in strategic shifts in India’s social protection architecture. In triggering 
a social protection response program for COVID -19, India has relied on in -kind support and cash transfers through its 
various schemes and platforms. By doing so, the country is leveraging different mechanisms of service delivery including 
piggy-backing on state government systems in the context of federal India, large rural safety nets, food distribution 
outlets, community organizations and self -help grou ps, and bank accounts linked to the unique Aadhar sytem. This 
operation supports such an approach while adding to the program in three different ways: (i) Fostering institutional 
reforms which move India’s social security protocols from scheme-based fragmentation towards an integrated approach 
through a consolidated National Social Security Board, blending multiple instruments to provide a fast and flexible social 
protection response, and reducing administrative duplication and inefficiencies (ii) Building an adaptive social protection 
system through use of the government’s diaaster response funds which can quickly provide support to excluded groups 
and cater to the diversity of social protection requirements and delivery needs across states and communities,  not only 
for COVID-19 but also for any future natural disaster/crisis (iii) Creating a portable social protection platform in India to 
ensure food, social insurance and cash -support for migrants across state boundaries.  
 
6. India’s public health response to the COVID-19 pandemic comprises a strong focus on social distancing. This 
resulted in one of the largest lockdowns in the world, unparalleled in human history. The extraordinary public health 
measures taken by national and state governments in India to counter the spread of the COVID -19 pandemic – from 
social distancing, restricting economic activities, curtailing the movement of people and goods through a complete 
lockdown impacting 1.3 billion persons– have resulted in supply and demand shocks in the economy. In the first quarter 
of 2021 (starting April 1st), economic growth contracted by an unprecedented 23.9 percent, while industrial and services 
output fell by 38 and 21 percent respectively. The poverty and social impacts in India from such contracti on shall be  
particularly sharp given that the workforce is predominantly informal and there were concerns of an economic slowdown 
prior to COVID-19. 
 
7. Although India has made remarkable progress in reducing absolute poverty, the C OVID-19 outbreak has 
reversed the course of poverty reduction. Between 2011-12 and 2016 -2017, India’s poverty rate is estimated to have 
declined from 22.5 percent to values ranging from 8.1 to 11.3 percent. Recent projections of GDP per capita growth rate 
indicate that as result of the pandemic, poverty rates in 2020 have likely reverted to estimated levels in 2016. The extent 
of vulnerability is reflected in labor market indicators from high frequency surveys being implemented in India. 43 
percent of those emp loyed in December 2019 were either unemployed or were looking for jobs by April 2020 (the first 
full of month of India’s lockdown). Survey data shows that urban households are facing greater vulnerabilities: between 
September-December, 2019 and May-August 2020, the proportion of people working in urban and rural areas has fallen 
by 4.2 and 3.8 percentage points respectively. Labor market recovery is contingent on whether these temporarily 
unemployed workers can fully re-enter the labor force. Overall, the pandemic is estimated to have raised urban poverty, 
creating a set of ‘new-poor’ that are likely to be engaged in non -farm sectors and who have typically received at least 
secondary or tertiary education, as compared to existing poorer households who are pr edominantly rural with lower 
levels of education. Data from a private-sector job portal in India shows that employers are posting fewer entry level job 
and demanding higher educational requirements. New vacancies in female -dominated industries and occupati ons have 
also been significantly curtailed. This indicates that the C OVID-19 pandemic has excerbated the vulnerabiilities for 
traditionally excluded groups, such as youth and women.  
 
8. Labor market informality further constrains the ability of Indian households to cope and recover from 

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 7  
     
 
livelihood shocks triggered by COVID-19 lockdowns. Ninety percent of the Indian workforce is informal, without access 
to significant savings or work -place base d social protection benefits such as paid sick leave or social insurance. The 
latest Indian Periodic Labor Force Survey (2017-18) finds that only 47% of urban workers have regular, salaried jobs. Even 
among workers in formal employment, over 70% do not have contracts, 54% are not entitled to paid sick leave and 49% 
do not have any form of social security benefits. Post-lockdown CMIE survey results show that a third of the formal 
workforce interviewed in December 2019 had lost their jobs by April 2020, compared to 44 percent of the informal 
workforce. Moreover, 31 percent of those formally employed in December 2019 had slid into informal sector jobs in April 
2020. Post-lockdown data from CMIE shows that nearly 17 million women -- four out of ten working women --have lost 
jobs, largely in the informal sector. These workers risk falling into poverty due to wage and livelihood losses triggered by 
shrinking economic activity . However, given the continent -like size and heterogenity in India, these Labor market 
implications are manifesting differently at the sub-national levels, depending on local economies and socio-demographic 
profiles. Responses to the pandemic will require sustained and comprehensive solutions anchored by national and sub -
national governments, blending a ctive participation from households, communities, front-line bureaucracies (district, 
block and Panchayat administration), civil society organizations and the private sector .  
 
9. In India, inter-state migrants are at acute risk of increased poverty and destitution. Seasonal migrants dominate 
low-paying, hazardous and informal market jobs in key sectors in urban areas, such as construction. Estimates from the 
Economic Survey highlight that the magnitude of inter -state labor migration in India was close to 9 million an nually 
between 2011 and 2016. The Government of India has recently disclosed that close to 10.5 million migrants returned to 
their home states during the lockdown period2. Analysis of CMIE’s household surveys show that 13.2 percent of migrants 
in 2019 who were reinterviewed in 2020 had returned back to their households in the first eight months of 2020. Migrant 
remittances are vital for lower-income Indian states. For example, studies show that in Bihar, remittances accounted for 
35.6 percent of gross state domestic product (GSDP) in 2011–12. COVID-19 cases have largely been concentrated in high-
income migrant destination states such as Delhi, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Maharastra. Media reports and civil society 
groups are highlighting how migrants relying on ad-hoc construction or service jobs in these states have been displaced 
due to the lockdown. Lack of portablity in social protection benefits across state boundaries exacerbates the risks faced 
by migrants. With unemployment increasing, and decline in earn ings and remittances, inter -state migrant workers will 
need targeted support.  
 
10. As India implements its macro-fiscal stimulus to support firms and stabilize the economy, social protection is 
a critical bridge which can help carry vulnerable households through the current and future crises. As economic impacts 
of the COVID -19 pandemic sharpen, timely and adequate social protection measures can help cushion shocks and 
prevent further destitution. Following the COVID -19 pandemic, nearly 126 coun tries have scaled -up coverage and 
benefits for social protection programs. Evidence shows that timely delivery of social assistance support can forestall 
losses and protect the poor. In particular, direct  cash transfers  to households can serve as an import ant stimulus for 
economic stability following COVID -19 outbreak, especially if these are targeted to informal and  lower-income 
households who will face disproportionate troubles. Cash transfers can supplement household  coping strategies as 
income support, help workers out of work who fall sick, or help them access essential goods.  
 
11. In response to the urgent social protection needs resulting from the COVID -19 pandemic, the Indian 
government has announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), which  provides a package of cash and 
in-kind social assistance to protect poor and vulnerable households . These measures cost the Government 170,000 
crore INR (approximately USD 23 billion), nearly 0.9% of GDP at current prices, demonstrating the Government’s s trong 
 
2 http://164.100.24.220/loksabhaquestions/annex/174/AU197.pdf 

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 8  
     
 
commitment to ensure that the poor and displaced are protected during this massive economic turmoil.  In-kind benefits 
for food are being delivered to all poor and vulnerable households identified by the Targeted Public Distribution System 
(TPDS) using pre-existing channels of Fair Price Shops (FPS) across the country, maintaining social distancing norms. Cash 
transfers were made directly into the bank accounts of beneficiaries identified by five of the country’s largest cash -
transfer programs, thereb y ensuring timely payments to those in need. The identification of beneficiaries and bank 
accounts relies on India’s near-universal benefit transfer and financial inclusion programs, supplemented by the Aadhaar 
digital ID network. Self -help groups, local g overnments, postal workers and district administration are being leveraged 
by state governments as the front -line for providing food security, delivery of benefits, awareness generation and 
tackling needs of excluded groups such as migrants. More details are provided in Section 3 on the Government Program.  
 
12. The Program Development Objective of the proposed operation is to strengthen the capability of state and 
national governments in India to provide coordinated and adequate social protection to the poor and vulnerable from 
the impacts of the COVID -19 pandemic.  In this context, “Capability” implies organizational guidelines, systems and 
institutional/legal mechanisms which allow government agencies to respond to demands for so cial protection to ensure 
strong coverage of the vulnerable . “Coordinated” means fostering an integrated institutional framework to implement 
a whole -of-society and whole -of-government approach for social protection and resilience, whereby pre -existing 
programs and platforms are l everaged by engaging all tiers of government including community groups. The program 
also aims to ensure an “adequate” package of social protection, meaning that the size of the benefits transferred should 
compensate for losses in consumption expenditures and prevent households from falling below the poverty line. The 
program will accelerate the delivery of social assistance announced under the PMGKY package at the state and national 
level through three pillars: (i) Accelerating the provision of adequate so cial protection for the poor and vulnerable by 
scaling up cash/in -kind assistance through pre -existing national platforms and programs (safety nets, e -payments 
architecture, self-help groups and disaster management protocols); (ii) Providing robust social protection for essential 
workers involved in COVID-19 relief efforts; and (iii) Ensuring vulnerable groups have access to PMGKY benefits through 
reform measures aimed at expanding points of last -mile delivery. The third pillar is critical to ensure migrant s and 
informal workers  - at risk of exclusion – can avail of social protection at this time of crisis. A fourth pillar adheres to India 
CMU norms to support important climate actions through national DPOs.  
 
13. Building resilience of households and communities against the impacts of COVID-19 will require two phases of 
social protection reform. As the pandemic evolves, a blend of different types of instruments will be needed. In the short 
term, poor and vulnerable households will need protective instr uments which can provide ex -post relief through 
immediate cash or in-kind assistance. To ensure speed and scale, leveraging decentralization and pre -existing programs 
will be key. Further, direct in-kind provisioning of essential food and fuel supplies will become important as supply chains 
maybe disrupted and social distancing protocols may constrain the ability of households to purchase goods and services. 
Simultaneously social protection for informal workers, particularly for those engaged in essential s ervices, needs to be 
augmented by coverage under preventive instruments for ex -ante risk coping through social insurance (for life, health 
and accidents). In the medium -term, as the government embarks on geographically targeted containment measures 
based on the spatial concentration of COVID -19 cases, the duration and impacts of the crisis will vary across states and 
districts. This will require deeper institutional reforms to enable a geographically diverse approach for social protection. 
The national government will need to empower state governments with finances and support to blend the use of safety 
nets, self-help groups, local governments and other innovations to provide fast, flexible and context -specific measures, 
with additional support for hot-spot districts and clusters. For long run recovery, as lockdown measures are relaxed and 
community-driven approaches become scaleable, safety nets and social insurance will need to be complemented by 
promotional interventions to rebuild livelihoods and jobs.  Table 1 outlines a sequence of reforms proposed by the 
programmatic series, and draws links between COVID -19 emergency measures and broader medium -term institutional 

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 9  
     
 
reforms.  
 
                              Table 1: Sequencing of COVID-19 Social Protection Interventions and Reforms 
 Emergency COVID-19 Reforms (April-July 2020)            Medium Term SP Reforms (July-Nov 2020) 
Scaling-up a core set of pre-existing food/cash programs  
announced through PMGKY for immediate COVID-19 relief 
PMGKY will trigger a fundamental shift in the social protection  
system from scheme-based silos towards a more coordinated  
approach engaging key departments and state governments   
anchored by Ministries of Finance, Home Affairs and Labour  
By notifying COVID-19 pandemic as a ‘disaster’, the national 
government enables state governments to access funds from  
the State Disaster Response Funds (SDRF) to implement and  
deliver COVID-19 relief  
The use of SDRF will trigger an adaptive social protection   
system in India. This will be operationalized through a social  
protection window in the current disaster management system, 
enabling states to use monies in SDRF to deliver context -specific 
packages of social assistance for COVID -19 and  
future disasters.  
Provide access to portable food and in -kind benefits to  
migrant workers through state machinery and State Disaster  
Response Funds  
The One-Nation-One-Ration agenda and amendments to  
national Labor Codes (which regulate how social protection is  
designed and eligibility rules are defined by states/line  
agencies) have triggered a codified policy framework defining  
how the national government and states finance and coordinate a basic  
package of benefits (food and social insurance) for migrants  
across state boundaries. This will remedy current program  
architecture where only state residents receive benefits f rom 
programs.  
Door-step delivery of information/cash/in -kind relief by stat es 
leveraging post offices, fair price shops and community -based 
machinery 
 
The UMANG platform builds state level  government capacities  
to implement digitized payments which can leverage online 
information alerts, community -based organizations and  
front-line workers to improve last-mile delivery of cash in  
areas with weak financial access.  
 Quasi-income support measures through welfare f unds and  
EPFO to provide informal workers COVID-19 relief  
At present, India has a large share of cash transfer programs  
operating at scale in rural India. Through the new Affordable  
Rental Housing Platform (for urban poor) and National Social  
Security Board (for consolidated social insurance and cash  
transfers to informal workers),  India will rebalance it’s rural  
focused safety net towards urban areas and  expand use of  
social insurance by (i) Campaign to expand coverage to  
informal workers by leveraging linkages between Aadhaar,  
PDS and PMJDY (ii) Triggering a strong co-contributory urban  
safety nets platform to complement rural  programs. 
 
14. The COVID-19 pandemic is highlighting the structural deficiencies in India’s social protection system, which is 
fragmented and functions largely through scheme-based silos. Historically, India has provided social protection through 
a large and complex set of centrally sponsored schemes. These schemes are financed by the center and implemented by 
state governments. They include large -scale community -driven livelihoods programs (National Urban and Rural 
Livelihoods Mission), Panchayati Raj insitutions, self -help group initiatives, financial inclusion programs, safety nets, 
subsidies, public works, social pensions, quasi -income support and social insurance schemes. In addition, digital 
innovations for cash delivery and beneficiary identification also function a s independent schemes under the purview of 
discrete line ministries. Ideally, these schemes can serve as building blocks of an integrated system where the whole is 
greater than the sum of its parts. For example, self-help groups can help last-mile delivery of social assistance in concert 

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 10  
     
 
with technology innovations. However, there is no overarching institutional framework for coordinating these multiple 
scheme-based mechanisms. Faced with the COVID -19 crisis, the Government of India’s PMGKY has helped build  an 
implementation framework whereby multiple schemes work together through leadership anchored by the Government 
of India. Such an approach can transform social protection in India from scheme -based silos towards an integrated 
system. The reforms supporte d through DPO series will help India coordinate six existing schemes  and multiple Labor 
welfare programs—accounting for about 78 percent of social protection spending in India—to urgently provide a package 
of near universal social protection support. While DPO1 enabled provision of immediate cash transfers to about 320 
million individual bank accounts identified through pre -existing national social protection schemes  and additional food 
rations for about 800 million individuals; DPO 2 shall ensure a coordinated platform for delivering social insu rance, food 
transfers and cash for excluded migrant communities , disaster-prone regions, urban poor and informal workers.  
                     
15. The proposed program not only enhances coordination across schemes and ministries to build a disaster 
responsive social protection system, it also expand s the ability of India’s safety nets architecture to  become more 
inclusive by catering to a diversity of needs across states and vulnerable groups. Specific social groups are at risk of 
exclusion from accessing resources and government program s. The program directly transfers majority of benefits to 
women, thereby redressing gender-based vulnerabilities during a time of isolation. Tribal communities, who report the 
highest poverty rate in India, are accorded extra weightage in the way social protection measures are targeted, thereby 
bolstering their inclusio n. Migrants and the urban poor have been at great risk during the COVID -19 crisis as social 
assistance programs in India largely target rural populations without portability across state boundaries. Even prior to 
COVID-19, India needed to pivot its social protection system to address the needs of a more urban, mobile and diverse 
population. The onset of the pandemic has escalated the urgency of this reform agenda. Most social protection schemes 
operating in modern India are designed for a rural, agrarain an d chronically poor country. That India now only exists in 
pockets – the majority of the country has seen booming tele-digital and transport connectivity, sharp declines in income 
poverty and new neglected sources of risks related to climate, urbanization a nd migration. State capability and the 
delivery landscape are deeply different across regions. With economic growth, states have also diverged in their social 
protection needs and riks -profiles. India’s response to COVID -19 and future resilience depends on  how its social 
protection system responds to this heterogeneity. The proposed program  enables flexibility for state governments to 
cater to their contexts, while ensuring the needs of migrants, informal workers and the urban poor are addressed. 
Despite fiscal stress, state governments have proactively expanded support for the poor during the COVID -19 crisis. The 
proposed reforms will allow states to access flexible funding from disaster response funds to design and implement 
appropriate social protection responses to COVID -19 and future disasters. Given that larger shares of COVID -19 cases in 
India are currently in urban and peri -urban areas, geographically targeted support to these hot-spot districts w ill help 
deepen social protection coverage in urban areas.  
 
16. The second policy program also includes a specific focus on reforms which enable India to strengthen climate 
resilience of vulnerable populations. This is done through an important social protection reform which allows the use of 
nearly half the resources in state disaster response funds to provide  communities in disaster impacted regions to access 
quick cash assistance to cope from loss of livelihoods, and through a reform in the food subsidy sy stem making it more 
agile, portable and scalable in times of shocks, including future climate -related disasters. The program also supports 
reforms which promote the development of climate -resilient housing infrastructure, the generation of employments in 
climate-resilience building public works, and the strengthening of climate resilience of benefit transfers system through 
the use of mobile technology. Further, a pillar within the program supports broader reforms being implemented by the 
Indian government to protect groundwater reserves and encourage the use of renewable energy. While the latter two 
reforms may not have direct links with social protection efforts, these are important to build environmental resilience and 
reflects a new India CMU approach to  include climate-sensitive actions in all national level DPOs. Such actions assume 

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 11  
     
 
significance as India ranks fifth3 in a recent 2020 Climate Risk Index. The climate-sensitive components of the program are 
critical given India’s growing vulnerability to climate change shocks. India has suffered economic losses of USD 79.5 billion4 
due to climate related disasters in the last 20 years.  The proposed reform can help India address the adverse impacts of 
climate change and natural disasters on individuals and communities, mainly in the form of compensating for the loss of 
life and livelihood. 
 
17. Translating the potential of t hese reforms into impacts will require complementary investment programs 
focused on implementation support to states . Each of the proposed reform pillars will need strong support to ensure 
policy intent yields implementation results. India has made significant strides in using technology and accountability tools 
to improve payments and targeting. All programs being leveraged for PMGKY use digital modes of targeting and delivery. 
However, there is great heterogeneity in implementation capacities across states in India, and the proposed policy reforms 
will need to be supported through state level assistance through investment lending and technical assistance. These 
programs will need to ensure states are supported in designing delivery systems for social assistance, identifying excluded 
groups and reinforcing linkages between community-based organizations and social protection programs. At the national 
level, reforms related to a new consolidated National Social Security Board for informal workers at Ministry of Labour and 
Employment will need dedicated follow -up through investment projects or NLTA –given the importance of the agenda 
and weak capacities at MoLE. More details are provided in the sections describing each prior action.  
 
18. Structural and policy shifts that the Bank expected to see evolve over several years have become possible today 
as a result of the COVID-19 crisis. Through this program, the Bank has partnered with GoI to respond to this important 
policy opening to bolster India’s response to COVID -19 and its future resilience.  The DPO is only one element to support 
India’s journey to build a modern social protection syste m. Investment lending that strengthen the ‘nuts and bolts’ of  
delivery systems can ensure new pan-national platforms being created through the policy reforms are implemented well, 
thereby translating policy into practice.  
 
Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the country and government response 
 
19. In India, the pandemic and the national lockdown between March -May 2020 affected economic activity, with 
real GDP contracting by nearly 24% year-on-year in Q1 FY21 (April-June 2020). Until mid-March 2020, India was impacted 
indirectly via trade channels, as key imported inputs to domestic production were impeded, supply chains were disrupted, 
and global trade slowed. As of March 25, the GoI implemented a country-wide ‘lockdown’ to contain domestic contagion, 
and several states imposed additional curfew measures. As a result, economic activity, particularly industry and services, 
slowed sharply.  
 
20. According to the World Bank’s latest forecast, economic growth is expected to decline to -9.6% in FY21 and 
recover gradually thereafter. The financing ne eds of the GoI are expected to rise significantly. The sharp economic 
slowdown has affected revenues disproportionately (at central and state levels), with central government revenues 
declining by over 40% in the April -July period and states facing a short fall of a similar magnitude. At the same time, 
expenditure needs have risen. As a result, the general government deficit is expected to rise above 12% in FY21 and Public 
and Publicly Guaranteed debt to reach above 90% 5. The bulk of the required financing is expected to be sourced from 
domestic markets which for the moment have sufficient liquidity, with only a minor contribution from international 
 
3 Ranking: https://germanwatch.org/sites/germanwatch.org/files/20-2-
01e%20Global%20Climate%20Risk%20Index%202020_14.pdf  
4 https://www.undrr.org/publication/economic-losses-poverty-disasters-1998-2017 
5 Largely reflecting the projected decline in the denominator (GDP) in FY21. 

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 12  
     
 
borrowing.   
 
21. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated the vulnerabilities for traditionally excluded groups, suc h as youth 
and women.  In addition, interstate migrants are at risk of increased poverty and destitution.  Estimates from  the 
Economic Survey highlight that the magnitude of inter -state labor migration in India was close to 9 million annually 
between 2011 and 2016 and migrant remittances in lower -income states like Bihar accounted for 35.6% of gross state 
domestic product (GSDP) in 2011–12. MSMEs that account for the largest non -farm employment (30%) with about 20% 
female participation are considered to have been impacted the most due to lockdown. The GoI has unveiled a response 
package corresponding to 10% of GDP, including:   
 
• Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), to protect the poor and vulnerable impacted by 
Coronavirus Containment Measures, expected to cost approximately $ 23 billion.  
• MSME support includes Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for INR. 3 trillion6 , INR. 200 billion 
subordinate debt for stressed MSMEs, INR. 100 billion to provide equity funding for MSMEs with 
growth potential and change in the definition of MSMEs, by increasing investment limits and firm 
turnover, to help incentivize firms to grow.  
• Agriculture infrastructure fund - proposed financing facility of INR. 1 trillion (to be funded by NABARD) 
to promote post-harvest management infrastructure and, Micro -food enterprise - INR. 100 billion for 
technical upgrade and promotion of clusters of local products. 
• Outlay of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) - a universal rural 
employment guarantee program, is increased by INR. 400 billion.  
• Increased state government borrowing-limit, from 3% to 5% of GSDP (additional INR. 4.28 trillion). 
• Long- Term Repo Operations (LTROs) and Special Liquidity window: To alleviate cash flow pressures, 
the Reserve Bank of India has conducted LTROs and Targeted LTROs for a total amount of INR. 9.6 
trillion (about 4.5% of GDP) since February 2020. Moreover, a Special Liquidity Facility for mutual funds 
of INR. 500 billion was opened on April 27, 2020, to ease liquidity pressures on mutual funds.  
 
WBG support for responding to the crisis  
 
22. In alignment with its global response, the WBG has been closely supporting GoI’s strategy , which consists of 
three phases. In the first phase , the GoI tackled the health aspects, and partnered with the Bank for a $1 billion health 
project. In the second phase , GoI invested $ 23 billion in social protection program to support the poor and vulnerable 
communities during the lockdown, and the Bank provided financing of $ 750 million  (the proposed program intends to 
extend support of additional $ 400 million) .  In the third phase, GoI focused on economic stabilization and reducing  the 
costs of the lockdown. This includes support to MSMEs and their workers during lockdown by committing about 1.5% of 
GDP to MSME finance. The Bank financing of $750 million is supporting this program to provide liquidity for their balance 
sheets, to mitigate against potential solvency problems and job losses, and to lay the foundations for a stronger MSME 
financing ecosystem in the recovery phase.   
 
23. Additionally, the Bank activated the Contingent Emergency Response Component (CERC) in five projects to 
support the state governments’ COVID-19 relief efforts. Moreover, many projects made special provisions for COVID -19 
Assistance Packages within their project scope. Going forward, the Bank will be supporting the GoI under the following 
broad themes:  
 
6 Details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1625306. 

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 13  
     
 
i. Saving lives : Other than the ongoing healh programs, the Bank is a potential partner with GoI on its 
flagship program of Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojna which aims at strengthni ng the health sector in the 
country by strengthening healthcare services, health emergency preparedness and response and strengthen 
core capacities as per the International Health Regulations. In addition, the Bank is exploring innovative 
ways of support t o the state and central governments through upcoming operations in the education 
(Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat) and health (Mizoram, Meghalaya) sector.   
ii. Protecting poor and vulnerable people  The Bank will further support the efforts of the GoI under this 
pillar through the Development Policy Lending -II for social protection with a credit of $400m. This second 
phase of the Social Protection program is intended to enhance coordination across schemes and ministries 
to build a disaster -responsive social protection system and expand the ability of India’s safety nets 
architecture to cater to diverse need s across states and vulnerable groups. Some upcoming projects have 
specific COVID -19 components supporting this pillar - Chhatisgarh Inclusive Rural and Accelerated 
Agriculture Growth and Fisheries Sector COVID -19 Response and Recovery. 
iii. Sustainable gr owth and job creation : The Bank is preparing for a project on raising and accelerating 
MSME productivity which will focus on strengthening institutions and markets to enhance MSME 
productivity. Job creation is a special focus under the infrastructure proje cts as well.  
iv. Strengthening policies, institutions and investments for rebuilding better : This is an all encompassing 
theme under India CPF and is integrated in most of the projects. The upcoming engagement with the 
National Disaster Management Agency on Seismic Risk Mitigation Project is one such example.  
24. The IMF does not have an active lending program in India. However, it undertakes regular macroeconomic 
supervision and Article IV consultations twice yearly. The Bank and IMF teams regularly exchange views and information. 
The partnership with other donors  was brought to fruition in both the Social Protection and MSME COVID -19 response 
DPLs. Within the Social Protection DPL, the Bank has worked in collaboration with the Asian Development Bank (ADB), 
Agence Française de Développement (AFD), and Kreditanstalt  Fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW). The Japanese International 
Cooperation Agency (JICA), Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), the New Development Bank (NDB) and 
International Fund for Agriculture (IFAD) are also exploring potential parallel financing in upc oming operations. 
Discussions are ongoing to expand the World Bank’s TA through additional funds from the Bill and Melinda Gates 
Foundation (BMGF) and the United Kingdom’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO).  
 
Corporate Priorities  
 
25. Gender. The proposed program aims to address gender -gaps in program coverage for social assistance in India. 
Global experience indicates that poverty targeted safety nets tend to be gender sensitive driven by the fact that female 
headed households tend to be poorer than male headed households. PMGKY has gone further than just addressing gender 
bias in poverty but it also includes specific programs which are targeted only to women under PMJDY7  - which is a subset 
of PMGKY and has the objective of increasing final inclusion of women. Results from the CMIE COVID-19 supplementary 
module 8 between May and August 2020 shows that nearly 70 per cent of women enrolled in the PMJDY program received 
cash transfer benefit. In the bottom 40 per cent, 72% of such enrolled women received benefits. Beyond being gender 
 
7 PMJDY (Pradhan Mantri Jandhan Yojana) is a financial inclusion program to encourage men and women to open Bank accounts but special 
financial incentives are provided to women. 
8 CMIE is a household longitudinal survey to which a special post COVID-19 lockdown module (called the COVID-19 supplementary module) was 
added to assess impact of PMGKY. The survey was conducted over the phone during the lockdown period and covered 68,030 household during 
the period. 

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 14  
     
 
targeted, the broader PMGKY programs also had more impact on female heade d households. The largest component of 
PMGKY was food distribution through PDS which covers almost 800 million people.  Among PDS enrollees, PDS rice benefit 
were received by 75% of female headed households and 68% of male headed households.  
 
26. Climate Change . The design of t he social protection  prior actions promotes climate change mitigation  and 
adaptation. Under DPO 1, Prior Action 1 provided additional clean energy subsidies to the poor through Ujwala.  Under 
DPO 2, Prior Action 1 increases flexibility in use of national and state disaster response funds, while Prior Action 4 reforms 
the food subsidy system to be agile and rapidly scalable, both of which will not only help with COVID responses but creates 
a broader flexible response system which can be deployed in future climate related disasters such as floods and cyclones. 
Prior Action 5 contributes to the development of climate-resilient infrastructure by facilitating the adoption of innovative, 
eco-friendly, and disaster-resilient technologies and building materials. Prior Action 8 generates employment in climate 
resilience-building public works. Prior Ac tion 9 strengthens the climate resilience of social protection benefit transfers 
system through the use of mobile technology. Beyond the climate change elements of the social protection reform 
elements, this DPO also includes a climate change pillar which is now required for all India DPOs.  Finally, evidence from 
Indonesia and Brazil suggest that communities which receive cash transfers tend to reduce deforestation and invest in 
environmentally friendly practices9.  
 
2.               MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK  
 
2.1. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS 
 
27. When the COVID-19 outbreak unfolded, the Indian economy was already slowing. Real Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP) growth had moderated from an average of 7.4 percent over FY16 -FY19 to 4.2 percent in FY20. 10 The growth 
deceleration was due mostly to unresolved domestic issues (impaired balance sheets in the banking and corporate sectors) 
affecting credit and investment, which were compounded by stress in the non-bank segment of the financial sector and a 
marked decline in private consumption, on the back of weak rural income growth.  
 
28. Against this background of pre -existing weaknesses, the COVID -19 pandemic brought about major additional 
disruptions to economic activity during the first quarter of FY21. Until mid-March 2020, India was impacted mostly 
indirectly. External spillover effects dominated as key imported inputs to domestic production -especially from China-11 
were impeded and international supply chains were disrupted. Thereafter, the imposition of a national lockdown to limit 
domestic contagion resulted in a major slowdown in economic activity, particularly outside of the agriculture sector. Initial 
estimates for the first quarter of FY21 (April-June 2020) suggest that output contracted by a record 23.9 percent year-on-
year (y-o-y), with sharp declines in services and industrial activity. On the demand side there was a sharp contraction in 
investment (47 percent) and private consumption (27 percent), with net exports providing the only source of relief, as the 
drop in imports (40 percent) vastly outweighed the reduction in exports (20 percent) 12. Initially, there were also large 
negative impacts on financial markets, capital flows and equity markets, but these quickly reversed.  
 
29. The Government of India (GoI) responded proactively to the economic fallout from the COVID-19 outbreak. In 
May 2020, an “Economic Package” equivalent to 10 percent of GDP was announced comprising the steps outlined below 
 
9 https://advances.sciencemag.org/content/6/24/eaaz1298 
10 FY20 refers to the financial year (April 2019 to March 2020). 
11 Which accounts for about 15 percent of total imports and supplies key inputs in pharmaceuticals, auto, electronics and apparels sectors 
12 National Statistics Office (NSO) 

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 15  
     
 
(in addition to liquidity injections by the RBI):  
• Financial sector measures to maintain the flow of credit, which included:  (i) a  100 percent credit 
guarantee on additional bank and Non -Bank Finance Companies (NBFCs) lending to MSMEs and other small 
businesses up to 20 percent of their outstanding credit as of end February, (ii) a “special liquidity scheme” where 
a Special Purpose Vehicle would channel liquidity from the RBI to invest in the investment -grade debt of NBFCs, 
housing finance companies and micro finance institutions, with the entire operation  guaranteed by the 
government, and (iii) a broadening of the existing partial credit guarantee scheme for banks to purchase assets 
pools and bonds issued by NBFCs. In addition, the authorities sought to shield viable firms with liquidity pressures 
– particularly MSMEs – from immediate bankruptcy risks by (i) suspending the initiation of insolvency proceedings, 
(ii) excluding COVID -19-related debt from the definition of default for triggering insolvency proceedings within 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code ( IBC), and (iii) increasing the threshold limit for initiating insolvency 
proceedings within the IBC.13 
• Social safety net measures to help households cope with immediate income shocks including (i) increasing 
the budgetary allocation for the rural employment guarantee program (MGNREGA), (ii) free provision of wheat or 
rice and pulses to needy households, and (iii) the introduction of “National Portability Cards” to allow beneficiaries 
to access the Public Distribution System from any Fair Price Shop across the country.  
• Structural Reforms (announced in May but adopted in October) including far -reaching changes to 
agriculture marketing practices.  
30.  After reaching 4.8 percent in FY20, headline inflation averaged 6.7 percent over the first half of FY21 (April -
September 2020), mostly due to supply -chain disruptions. This is almost 3 percentage points above the RBI’s inflation 
target-midpoint of 4 percent and above the upper band of 6 percent. Food inflation (averaging 9.6 percent over April -
September) contributed significantly to headline inflation in recent months, mostly reflecting supply chain and transport 
constraints. Core inflation (headline, excluding food and fuel) also remained elevated at 5.7 percent in September. 
 
31. In spite of elevated inflation, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) adopted a proactive stance. It cut the repo rate by 
a cumulative 115 bps between March and May. While mounting inflationary pressures led the RBI to pause further easing 
as of August, the Monetary Policy Committee indicated strong commitment to maintaining an accommodative policy 
stance for the foreseeable future. In addition, the RBI has taken steps to ensure that ample liquidity is available in the 
market including through targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO), cutting the cash -reserve ratio, increasing the 
borrowing limits for the central and state governments, providing refinance facilities to DFIs (NHB, SIDBI and NABARD) 
and easing borrowing requirements under the marginal standing facility window. The RBI also announced a 6-month loan 
moratorium and NPA standstill through A ugust 31, 2020, and subsequently a special restructuring scheme for accounts 
affected by the impact of COVID-19. The RBI has also recently announced on tap TLRTOs of INR 1 trillion until March 2021, 
Open Market Operations in State Development Loans (SDLs), to support state-level borrowing, and has increased the Held 
to Maturity (HTM) limits for government securities from 19.5 percent to 22 until March 2022.  
 
32. India’s financial sector was already exhibiting signs of fragility coming into the crisis. Enduring structural 
weaknesses in the banking sector (particularly public sector banks) were compounded by stress in the non-bank subsector, 
following the default of the systemically important Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) NBFC in September 
2018. Along with other factors, this contributed to non-food credit growth declining to 6.7 percent in FY20 (below the 12.8 
percent average of the ten years prior). According to the RBI’s Financial Stability Report from July 2020, the gross NPA 
ratio of scheduled commercial banks was estimated at 8.5 percent in FY20 and expected to increase to 12.5 percent by 
 
13 To Rs10 million from Rs0.1 million 

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 16  
     
 
FY21 reflecting COVID -19 related loan delinquencies, under a baseline scenario significantly more benign than actual 
developments. 
 
33. India’s external position has improved significantly.. India’s external position had already improved markedly in 
FY20, as imports of goods and services contracted on the back of weak domestic demand, with the current account deficit 
narrowing to 0.8 percent of GDP and the f inancial account recording robust inflows of portfolio and foreign direct 
investment (FDI). In the first half of FY21, these trends were magnified by the impact of COVID -19. The current account 
turned to a surplus, as the collapse in imports (by 40 percent ) more than offset a drop in exports and a decline in 
remittances14 (by 21 percent). Meanwhile, net foreign direct and portfolio investment inflows rose to USD 29.2 billion 
over April -August 2020 (compared to USD 24.3 billion during the same period of the previous year). Finally, the RBI 
intervened in the market  to preve nt an excessive appreciation of the domestic currency, whose exchange rate rose to 
around 73.6 per USD on October 23, 2020. As a result of these three dynamics, foreign reserves accumulated to a record 
level of USD 542 billion at end-September, equivalent to about 14 months of FY20 imports, up from USD 475.5 billion at 
end-March.  
 
34. India’s fiscal situation deteriorated sharply in FY21, exacerbating pre -existing weaknesses. Prior to the COVID-
19 outbreak, a significant shortfall in revenue, had already necessitated a reassessment of the central government’s FY20 
fiscal deficit target, from 3.3 percent of GDP in the initial budget to 3.8 percent in the revised budget. The provisional 
assessment of the Controller General of Accounts suggests that the FY20 fiscal deficit reached 4.6 percent of GDP. At the 
subnational level, detailed state-level fiscal data is not yet available for FY20, however, the combined deficit of states is 
believed to have widened to about  3 percent of GDP, given lower -than-expected growth.  As a result, the general 
government (center and states) fiscal deficit is estimated to have reached 7.6 percent of GDP in FY20. In the first half of 
FY21, fiscal dynamics deteriorated further, due to the direct and indirect impact of COVID -19. First, the GoI proactively 
responded to the health and social emergency through additional spending measures (albeit only amounting to a fraction 
of the total Economic Package) 15. Second, the deep contraction in economic activity in early FY21 impaired revenue 
collection dramatically, both for the center and the states. During April -June 2020 (Q1 FY21) tax and nontax revenues of 
the center fell by 46 and 55 percent respectively y-o-y. For states, aggregate data for 16 states indicate that revenues and 
own tax receipts  fell by 18 and 10 percent respectively, y -o-y. As a result the fiscal deficit widened significantly as did 
domestic borrowing (which is the main source of financing the fiscal deficit in India). 
 
2.2. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY 
 
35. While the national lockdown has been lifted and mobility restrictions eased, the resumption of economic 
activity is expected to be very gradual. The national lockdown – implemented by the central government with the backing 
of states – resulted in a standstill in economic activity in the first quarter of FY21. As a result, the balance sheets of 
households and firms have been adversely impacted, pa rticularly given the largely informal nature of economic activity 
and employment. Preliminary data indicate significant labor market impacts, including a steep decline in labor force 
participation. In the near-term, therefore, it is likely that private con sumption will remain depressed (given the need for 
households to rebuild savings, and to adjust permanent income expectations) and that firms will refrain from carrying-out 
significant investments until they have re -built their balance sheets and consumer demand has firmed. For most 
businesses, operating costs have risen significantly throughout the value chain, while consumers are likely to engage in 
precautionary savings. These mutually reinforcing disruptions in domestic supply and demand, along with weak external 
 
14 Remittances (as measured by personal and other current transfers) declined by about 5.5 percent y-o-y during Q1FY21. 
15 The 10 percent of GDP package included liquidity already injected by the RBI, a previous fiscal package, credit guarantees and liquidity provision in addition to 
direct budgetary resources, and some of the direct spending measures that were meant to be covered through re-purposing of pre-planned expenditure.  

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 17  
     
 
demand, are expected to result in a large growth contraction in FY21. On the supply side, the services sector will be 
particularly impacted. On the demand side, any revival in domestic investment is likely to be significantly delayed, given 
heightened risk aversion by lenders, persistent concerns about financial sector resilience, and the deterioration in 
corporate and household balance sheets.  
 
36. The World Bank’s latest forecasting cycle – concluded in October 2020 – projects a contraction of 9.6 percent in 
FY21 (albeit with a considerable margin of uncertainty ) and a U -shaped recovery trajectory . The large anticipated 
contraction in FY21 reflects the massive decline in output registered in the first quarter of the fiscal year as well as the 
gradual nature of recovery, particularly for services. The elements of uncertainty include (i) the course and duration of the 
pandemic, (ii) the speed at which the behavior of households and firms adjust to the lifting of the lockdowns, and (iii) 
further countercyclical monetary and fiscal policy measures. In FY22, growth is expected to rebound to 5.4 percent  but 
this improvement mostly reflects base effects. On the supply side, services sector growth is expected to be durably 
impaired particularly for activitie s requiring face to face interactions, and in tourism and hospitality subsectors. On the 
demand side, private consumption is anticipated to recover gradually (although not linearly since households will need to 
rebuild depleted savings) but investment is expected to be significantly hampered, as companies and banks emerge from 
the moratorium regime with significant pending liabilities. While exports should gradually recover, muted global growth 
will translate into slow growing demand for India’s exports, unless the country can significantly boost its competitiveness. 
As a result, according to current projections, India should return to pre-COVID levels of output in FY23 only. 
 
37. The RBI is expected to continue to support the economic recovery within the limits  of its mandate. Headline 
inflation has been elevated over the first half of FY21 averaging 6.7 percent and remaining above the upper limit of the 
RBI’s 2-6 percent inflation target band for 6 consecutive months. While it refrained from adopting further in terest rate 
cuts, the Monetary Policy Committee has left its accommodative stance unchanged and provided unambiguous forward 
guidance that this would be the case “as long as necessary – at least during the current financial year and into the next 
financial year”, arguing that the recent period of elevated inflation was essentially due to transitory supply constraints. 
Moreover, as discussed above, the RBI has also taken steps (and reiterated its commitment) to ensuring financial market 
stability and an “orderly evolution of the yield curve” through large scale open -market operations of government bonds 
(G-Secs) and, since October also state bonds (SDLs).  
 
38. However, it is unclear to what extent financial institutions will be willing or able to pass on the ample liquidity 
provided by the RBI to final borrowers. Risk aversion continues to hamper the flow of credit and COVID-19 has magnified 
pre-existing fragilities. The RBI’s Financial Stability Report of July 2020 observed that the profitability of Public Sector Banks 
(PSBs) was weak due to muted credit -uptake and slow resolution of NPAs. Stress tests included in that report indicated 
that the GNPA ratio could increase to 14.7 per cent under a scenario of very severe stress. Arguably – although the 
introduction of the debt moratorium does not allow adequate access to up-to-date information – the disruptions caused 
by the outbreak of COVID-19 will result in significant additional weaknesses across all segments of India’s financial sector, 
implying a much longer than previously expected process of normalization. Data available through August 2020 indicate 
that nominal bank credit growth to industry remained weak and that it was negative toward medium, micro and small 
enterprises. 
 
39. The balance of payments is expected to be largely positive in FY21.  The current account is expected to reach a 
surplus of 0.7 percent of GDP in FY21 and is projected to gradually return to a deficit – albeit small – in later years. 
Meanwhile, capital inflows have remained buoyant. O ver April to August 2020, net foreign investment inflows stood at 
USD 29.2 billion (compared to USD 24.3 billion during the same period last year). As a result of the positive trade and 
capital balances, foreign reserves reached USD 542 billion at end -September, equivalent to about 14 months of FY20 

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 18  
     
 
imports. 
 
40. A large fiscal slippage is expected for the full FY21 fiscal year, and the current FRBM targets may need to be 
revisited. The FY21 Union budget, which was released before the onset of COVID -19, envisag ed that the central 
government’s fiscal deficit would narrow to 3.5 percent of GDP in FY21 and further to 3.3 and 3.1 percent of GDP in FY22 
and FY23, respectively. This was to be achieved thanks to increases in tax revenues (reflecting an anticipated recovery in 
overall growth16 and private consumption), and through a significant increase in capital receipts, in line with the GoI’s 
ambitious dis-investment program. These expectations were already optimistic, even before the COVID-19 outbreak, given 
India’s slowing growth momentum, and the drag on revenue from an earlier cut in corporate taxes 17 and from 
modifications in personal income tax rates 18 19. In the wake of the COVID -19 outbreak, the collapse in growth and 
revenues, this scenario is no longer possible. 
 
41. The projected shortfall in revenue is the main driver of the expected central government fiscal deficit. The GoI 
has been fiscally cautious in responding to the current health emergency and economic crisis. Total expenditure is 
estimated to have incr eased by just 2 percentage points of GDP relative to the pre -COVID-19 FY21 budget (while the 
government has announced an economic stimulus package amounting to INR 20 trillion, a significant proportion was in 
the form of liquidity measures by the RBI and below the line credit guarantees). However, a significant revenue shortfall 
is expected to contribute to a sizeable increase in the fiscal deficit of the central government. Pre-COVID-19, total revenues 
were budgeted at INR 20.2 trillion; they are now projected to reach INR 13.6 trillion (7.3 percent of FY21 GDP). This INR 
6.6 trillion shortfall stems from mostly from lower tax collection s (80 percent of the gap). As a result, the fiscal deficit of 
the general government is likely to increase sharply in FY21. In a baseline scenario, which takes into account revised growth 
projections, lower than expected tax and divestment proceeds, and the fiscal measures adopted to date, the fiscal deficit 
of the central government would increase to 8.1 percent of GDP in FY21 (and remain elevated at 6.8 percent in the 
following year). Thus, if the combined defi cit of the states is contained within 4.3 percent of GDP (which is in line with 
recent relaxations granted by the central government20), the deficit of the general government would rise to 12.4 percent 
in FY21.  
 
42. Risks stemming from contingent liabilities exist and may need to be reassessed. Public sector undertakings and 
other public agencies have accumulated significant liabilities (with borrowing by public sector undertakings alone 
amounting to over 9 percent of GDP as of FY19 21) but risks are believed to be limited given that they maintain adequate 
access to capital in a context of abundant liquidity. Additional risks come from the financial sector, namely from a buildup 
of NPAs in public sector banks that could eventually require large -scale r ecapitalization.22A clearer estimate of the 
potential capital needs within the financial sector, both for banks and NBFCs, will emerge after the loan moratorium and 
 
16 The expected nominal growth rate in the Union Budget was 10 percent for FY21. 
17 The annual turnover threshold for firms to pay a lower Corporate Income Tax rate of 25 percent, was raised from Rs.2.5 billion to Rs.4 billion. Consequently, almost 
all corporate entities were liable to pay 25 percent tax. 
18 As per the Union Budget 2020-21 the personal income tax (PIT) rates applicable for most slabs were lowered. However, the new rates will be applicable only to those 
individuals who do not avail of certain exemptions. An individual is free to choose whether to continue to avail exemptions o r to shift to the new regime. This step 
comes in with a simultaneous abolition of about 70 types of PIT exemptions. 
19 Prior to the onset of COVID-19, central government revenue was expected to increase due to anticipated divestment and a gradual pickup in economic activity. 
20 India’s states are required to obtain clearance from the GoI for their borrowing plans, and in doing so – broadly speaking - they are required to target fiscal deficits 
not exceeding 3 percent of state GDP. The XVth Finance Commission is expected to finalize its report and recommendations for the next 5 years, including so called 
“revenue deficit” grants for those states facing particular and unavoidable fiscal stress. 
21 These are not included in the general government debt stock. Latest data available up to FY19 shows that around 26 percent of  central public sector undertakings 
(CPSUs) are loss-making. 
22 The government has recapitalized PSBs in the past years (including INR 654 billion in FY20). Cumulative recapitalization over the 5-year period FY16 to FY20 amounts 
to 1.6 percent of GDP. The government announced recapitalization of Rs.200 billion for PSBs in September 2020. 

--- PDF PAGE 22 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 19  
     
 
NPA recognition standstill expire.23 Other contingent liabilities that would entail significant fiscal cost could emerge if there 
are sector - or industry -wide calls on the MSME guarantees by the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small 
Enterprises (CGTMSE) or by the National Credit Guarantee Trust Company Ltd. (NCGTC) as part of the Rs.3 trillion 
emergency liquidity facility for MSMEs. However, the scope of calls on the scheme will not be known until the full extent 
of NPAs become clear next quarter.24   
 
 
43. According to the Bank’s calculations, India’s debt to GDP ratio is projected to increase significantly in the short 
term. Under a baseline scenario reflects the COVID -19 shock, including a contraction of real GDP growth and a sharp 
increase in the primary deficit in FY21, the general government debt-to-GDP ratio peaks at about 94 percent in FY23 before 
gradually declining thereafter. Under a further combined growth and fiscal shock, the ratio rises to over 101 percent of 
GDP around FY23. This notwithstanding, India’s public debt is assessed to remain sustainable because it is: (a) mostly 
denominated in domestic currency; (b) mostly of medium-/long -term maturity; and (c) predominantly held by residents25. 
India’s external debt (both public and private), amounting to 20 percent of GDP and predominantly of long duration, is 
also assessed to be sustainable.  Finally, India has a relatively robust institutional and operational framework for debt 
management. Since 2016, public debt has been managed by a dedicated Public Debt Management Cell (PDMC) housed in 
the Ministry of Finance, which oversees all key middle office functions. Specifically, the PDMC plays a key role with regards 
 
23 After the RBI’s directive, banks and NBFCs can offer a six-month moratorium to borrowers and do not have to categorize these accounts as NPAs for the duration of 
the moratorium. As a result, the impact on NPAs and solvency can be determined only after the moratorium, when banks can track their borrowers individually to 
determine and segregate the permanent impact from the temporary impact and make appropriate provisions 
24 Contingent liabilities in the form of guarantees are limited to 0.5 percent of GDP annually. The actuals were 0.41 and 0.25 percent in FY19 and FY20, respectively. For 
FY21 the contingent liabilities for the announced MSME and NBFC measures will be Rs.3.40 trillion (1.62 percent of GDP) at th e nominal value of the announced 
measures, although less than the full amounts may count within a single fiscal year.  
25 As of end -June 2020, commercial banks and insurance companies were the largest owners of GoI dated securities. Under the statutory liqu idity r atio (SLR) 
requirement, scheduled commercial banks are required to hold a specified portion of their net demand and time liabilities (NDTL) in cash or gold or in ‘SLR securities’ 
(that includes dated securities and treasury bills of the GoI and SDLs). There has been a calibrated reduction in the SLR in recent years to 18 percent at present. 
 
Figure 1. India Public Debt Sustainability: Baseline and Stress-Test Scenarios 
 
Source: World Bank staff calculations, RBI and Ministry of Finance. 
Note: The growth shock models the effect of a 1 percentage point decrease in growth in FY21 and FY22, the fiscal shock models the effect of a 
1 percentage point increase in the primary deficit in FY21 and FY22, the interest rate shock models the effect of a 2 percentage point increase 
in the nominal interest rate through the forecast period, and the combined macro -fiscal shock models the effect of all three of the se shocks 
occurring simultaneously.  
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Combined macro-fiscal shock
Interest rate shock
Fiscal shock
Real GDP growth shock
Baseline

--- PDF PAGE 23 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 20  
     
 
to debt management strategy formulation and reporting, while debt issuance is handled by the RBI. Thus, even in the 
event of heightened levels of debt in the short term, the strength of the overall debt man agement architecture provides 
comfort that market, and operational risks can be handled and mitigated adequately. 
 
44. Although downside risks have increased significantly due to the onset of the COVID -19 pandemic, India’s 
macroeconomic policy framework is considered adequate for the proposed DPO. While real output will decline in FY21, 
growth is expected to resume gradually from FY22 onwards. The deviation from the pre-COVID path of fiscal consolidation, 
including on account of countercyclical measures, is needed given the imperative to protect the poor and support 
economic activity. Moreover, to date, these measures have been in the form of one-off additional expenditures, such that 
fiscal consolidation can resume in FY22, which should allow public debt to return to a declining trajectory from FY24 
onwards. Finally, in an effort to ensure that fiscal discipline is maintained, the government has suspended the introduction 
of all new programs (other than under the stimulus package) by central ministries and departments for FY21. In view of 
recent measures by the RBI to mitigate the fallout from the impact of COVID-19, ample domestic funding is available and 
refinancing risks are still moderate. In recent years, the monetary policy framework has been strengthened and, while 
India’s exposure to external volatility has increased, high reserve levels and limited external financing needs p rovide 
adequate buffers. While significant risks remain -in particular a sustained spread of COVID -19 domestically - the 
government and regulatory agencies (RBI and SEBI) have demonstrated that they had the capacity to respond swiftly and 
adequately. 
Table 2. India Selected Economic Indicators FY16–FY23 
Key Macroeconomic 
Indicators  FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 est. 
FY21 
Forecas
t 
FY22 
Forecas
t 
FY23 
Forecas
t 
Real Economy (Annual percentage change unless otherwise Indicated)   
Nominal GDP (local currency) 10.5 11.8 11.1 11.0 7.2 -8.3 7.6 7.7 
Real GDP 8.0 8.3 7.0 6.1 4.2 -9.6 5.4 5.2 
Per Capita GDP (real USD) 1607.9 1719.4 1816.8 1906.8 1965.2 1758.5 1835.4 1912.6 
Contributions to growth (percentage points)    
Consumption 5.2 5.2 5.1 5.0 4.2 -8.4 6.2 6.1 
Investment 2.0 2.6 2.2 3.0 -0.9 -4.8 2.2 1.9 
Net exports 0.1 0.1 -2.8 0.4 0.9 2.0 -1.0    -0.8 
GDP deflator growth 2.3 3.2 3.8 4.6 2.9 1.4 2.0 2.4 
Consumer price index inflation 
(CPI av.) 4.9 4.5 3.6 3.4 4.8 3.8 4.0 4.0 
Fiscal accounts (general 
government) (Percent of GDP)  
Overall balance −6.9 -6.9 -5.8 -5.4 -7.6 -12.4 -10.9 -8.9 
Total Liabilities 68.5 68.8 69.8 67.5 72.2 90.4 93.5 94.1 
Selected monetary accounts (Annual percentage change unless otherwise 
indicated)      
Base money (M0 or reserve 
money) 13.1 -12.9 27.3 14.5 —                                                 — — -- 
Credit to nongovernment 10.6 4.4 9.5 12.7 — — — -- 
Interest rate (Repo rate and 
period average) 7.0 6.4 6.1 6.3 5.4 5.0 — -- 

--- PDF PAGE 24 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 21  
     
 
Balance of payments  (Percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)   
Current account balance −1.1 -0.6 -1.8 -2.1 -0.8 0.7 0.0 -0.5 
Imports 22.9 21.3 22.1 23.7 20.9 18.7 20.2 21.4 
Exports 20.0 19.4 19.0 20.1 18.4 18.1 18.5 19.2 
Foreign direct investment (net) 1.7 1.6 1.1 1.1 1.5 1.1 1.3 1.5 
Gross reserves (in US$ billion, 
eop) 360.2 370.0 424.4 412.0 475.5 — — — 
In months of next year's 
imports 8.4 7.4 — — — — — — 
External debt 23.4 19.8 20.1 19.8 20.6 — — — 
Terms of trade (FY2000=100) 71.8 71.1 73.3 — — — — — 
Exchange rate (INR./US$1, 
average) 65.5 67.1 64.5 69.9 71.1 — — — 
Other memo items                
Nominal GDP in INR(trillions) 137.7 153.9 171.0 189.7 203.4 186.5 200.6 216.0 
Source: India National Statistical Office, Staff calculations. 
 
Table 3. India’s Selected Fiscal Indicators FY15–FY23 
Key Fiscal Indicators 
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 
Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Estimate Forecast Forecast Forecast 
Central Government       
Overall balance -4.1 -3.9 -3.5 -3.5 -3.4 -4.6 -8.1 -6.8 -5.3 
Primary balance −0.9 −0.7 −0.4 −0.4 −0.4 -1.5 -4.4 -2.8 -1.3 
Total Receipts  
12.0 12.9 13.3 13.0 12.8 11.9 10.3 11.0 12.2 
(revenue + capital) 
Tax revenues 10.0 10.6 11.1 11.2 11.0 9.9 8.8 9.2 10.1 
Taxes on goods and 
services 2.9 3.6 4.2 4.6 4.3 4.3 3.7 4.0 4.2 
Taxes on income and 
profits 5.5 5.4 5.4 5.8 6.0 5.1 4.6 4.7 5.3 
Taxes on international 
trade 1.5 1.5 1.5 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.7 
Other taxes 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Non-tax revenues 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.1 1.2 1.6 1.4 1.5 1.5 
Non-Debt Capital 
receipts 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.7 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.3 0.6 
Expenditures 16.1 16.7 16.8 16.5 16.2 16.5 18.4 17.8 17.6 
Current expenditures 14.5 14.9 15.0 14.9 14.6 14.8 16.7 16.0 15.8 
Interest payments 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.7 3.9 4.1 
Others (salaries, 
supplies, and so on) 8.5 8.0 7.9 7.9 7.5 8.5 10.2 9.0 8.4 
Tax transfers to states 2.7 3.7 4.0 4.0 4.0 3.2 2.9 3.1 3.3 

--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 22  
     
 
Capital expenditures 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.8 1.8 
Central Government 
Financing 4.1 3.9 3.5 3.5 3.4 4.6 8.1 6.8 5.3 
External (net) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Domestic (net) 4.1 3.9 3.5 3.5 3.4 4.6 8.1 6.8 5.3 
State Governments   FY19 RE FY20 BE      
Overall balance -2.6 -3.0 -3.5 -2.4 -2.1 -3.0 -4.3 -4.1 -3.6 
Revenues 13.0 13.7 13.7 13.8 15.4 15.2 13.5 14.2 14.6 
Expenditures and net 
lending 15.6 16.7 17.2 16.2 17.5 18.2 18.8 18.3 18.2 
Total Liabilities   FY19 RE FY20 BE      
General Government 66.6 68.5 68.8 69.8 67.5 72.2 90.4 93.5 94.1 
Source: India National Statistical Office, Staff calculations. Note: The general government deficit may not necessarily 
equal the sum of the central and state government deficits as the general government deficit is reported net of 
intergovernmental transfers. The combined state government deficit is reported with a lag.  
Table 4. BOP and external financing requirements  
External financing requirements FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 
  Actual Actual Actual Est. Est. Proj. Proj. 
(in percent of GDP) 
 1. Financing Requirements (i-ii) 0.6 1.8 2.1 0.8 -0.7 0.0 0.5 
  i. Current Account Deficit* 0.6 1.8 2.1 0.8 -0.7 0.0 0.5 
  ii. Net Errors and Omissions 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
 2. Financing Sources (i+ii) 0.6 1.8 2.1 0.8 -0.7 0.0 0.5 
  i. Capital Account Balance (a+b+c) 1.5 3.3 2.0 2.8 1.4 1.8 2.4 
  a. Net Foreign Direct Investment 1.6 1.1 1.1 1.5 1.1 1.3 1.5 
  b. Net Portfolio Investment 0.3 0.8 -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 
  c. Net All Other Flows** -0.4 1.4 0.9 1.3 0.4 0.5 0.5 
  ii. Change in reserve assets (1-2.i) -0.9 -1.6 0.1 -2.0 -2.1 -1.8 -1.9 
  4.  External Financing Gap (1-2) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 
Source: Reserve Bank of India and staff calculations.  
Note: *: Includes merchandise and invisibles. **: All other flows include short - and long-term debt flows (external 
assistance, commercial borrowings and trade credits) and banking capital. Positive ch ange in reserves indicate a 
decline/negative indicates an increase. 
 
2.3. IMF RELATIONS 
 
45. The IMF does not have an active lending program in India. However, it carries out regular macroeconomic 
supervision and Article IV  consultations twice yearly. The World Bank and IMF teams regularly exchange views and 
information.  The IMF provided an assessment letter , which is attached as Annex 2. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 23  
     
 
3. GOVERNMENT PROGRAM 
 
46. India has implemented stringent public health measures to flatten the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
Government of India executed the world’s largest lockdown on March 23, 2020, bringing economic activity to a halt in a 
country of 1.3 billion people. The measures have led to serious disruptions specially impacting the livelihoods of the poor 
and marginal workers and their families. The pandemic has been notified by the national and state governments as a 
‘disaster’, thereby enabling the use of funds and protocols under the national disast er management regulations.  To 
counter the impacts on the poor, vulnerable and informal workers, the Government of India launched the Pradhan 
Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), an important and ambitious initiative to protect the poor and vulnerable who have 
lost their livelihoods due the Coronavirus Containment Measures.  These measures are expected to cost the Government 
170,000 crore INR (approximately USD 23 billion), demonstrating the Government’s strong commitment to assure that 
the poor and displaced are protected during this massive economic turmoil.  The Government is ready to provide more 
funding if needed to assure this goal.   
 
47. The Government PMGKY package , anchored at the Ministry of Finance, uses India’s well -developed Public 
Distribution System (PDS) and Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system to transfer food and cash benefits respectively.  
In-kind benefits for food will be delivered to all poor and vulner able households identified by the PDS using pre -existing 
channels of Fair Price Shops across the country, maintaining social distancing norms. Cash transfers shall be made directly 
into the bank accounts of beneficiaries identified by five of the country’s  largest cash -transfer programs from the 
treasury, thereby ensuring timely payments to those in need. The identification of beneficiaries relies on India’s near -
universal programs, supplemented by the Aadhaar digital ID network. The key elements of the mea sures announced on 
March 25, 2020 are as follows: 
• Scaling up Public Distribution System (PDS) allocations for all AAY, Priority households for three months (1kg pulses 
per household, 5kg wheat or rice per individual in the household) 
• Advance payment under Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM -KSN) by INR 2000 for 8.7 crore farmers for 
three months  
• Increasing Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) wage rates from 180 INR 
to 202 INR  
• Transferring 1000 INR to all beneficiaries under the National Social Assistance Program (NSAP) for elderly, widows 
and disabled receiving social pensions (3.5 crore beneficiaries) 
• Transferring 500 INR per month to all female Jan Dhan Accounts for three months 
• Scaling up UJJWALA: Providing free cylinders for three months to poor UJJWALA beneficiaries. This expected to 
cover 8.3 crore households 
• Encouraging States through advisories to use Construction Workers Welfare Funds for covering the unorganized 
sector: Union Government intends to issue directives to state governments to use the INR 31,000 crore funds in 
the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Fund to finance support for COVID-19 response to 3.5 crores 
registered construction workers.   
• The Central Government will pay Employee Provident Fund (EPF) contributions for employees and employers for 
the next 3 months. This is targeted to establishments with up to 100 workers and where 90% of workers earn less 
than INR 15,000 per month. This is expected to cover 18 lakh employees and 4 lakh establishments.  
• The Central Government will amend EPF regulations to allow workers to access a non -refundable advance from 
their accounts. The regulations will allow workers to withdraw 75% of their provident fund savings or 3 -months 
wages (whichever is lower). This is expected to benefit 4.8 crore workers covered by the Employees' Provident 
Fund Organisation (EPFO). 

--- PDF PAGE 27 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 24  
     
 
48. Following the PMGKY announcement,  which focused on emergency supplemental support to beneficiaries of 
existing programs, the Government has approved additional provisions to ensure that migrant workers receive access 
to food and shelter where they are currently resident.  The Government is also aware that there are critical challenges 
which need to be addressed quickly to ensure full portability of benefits regardless of location or the sector in which 
workers are engaged.  The Government also recognizes that while the National Disaster Management Fund can fund one-
time relief payments it cannot finance a series of short -term safety net payments which are necessary to respond to 
extended disasters such as COVID -19.  In response, the government plans to open a new window for adaptable social 
safety nets funding by allowing states to use SDRF/NDRF to provide immediate cash support for the COVID -19 disaster 
and future disasters whether local or national. Further, to consolidate and fast-track social protection for informal workers 
and the urban poor, the Ministry of Labour and Employment have mandated the creation of  a National Social Security 
Board for coordinated mission -mode delivery of social insurance and cash to informal workers, with focus on the gig -
economy and aggregators.  
 
4. PROPOSED OPERATION 
 
4.1. LINK TO GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND OPERATION DESCRIPTION  
 
49. Program Development Objective of the proposed operation is to:  strengthen the capability of state and 
national governments in India to provide coordinated and adequate social protection to  protect the poor and 
vulnerable from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. In this context, ‘capability’ implies organizational guidelines, 
systems and institutional/legal mechanisms which allow government agencies to respond to demands for social 
protection to ensure strong coverage of the vulnerable. By ‘coordinated’, the program implies fostering an integrated 
institutional framework to implement a whole -of-society and whole -of-government approach for social protection and 
resilience, whereby pre -existing programs and platforms are leveraged by engaging all t iers of government including 
community groups. The program also aims to ensure an ‘adequate’ package of social protection, implying that size of the 
benefits transferred should compensate for losses in consumption expenditures and prevent households from f alling 
below the poverty line.  All actions enable improved coordination across national and state governments, thereby 
improving capabilities of government agencies to simplify and ease access to benefits for citizens. A robust series of 
analytics (listed in Table 5) highlight that fragmentation hampers the capability of state and national governments in 
India to cover key vulnerable groups and provide timely benefits.  
 
50. The proposed DPO supports all aspects of the the Government ’s COVID-19 social protection efforts through a 
series of reforms. The reform package is designed to improve efficiency of delivery and to address problems which have 
emerged such as lack of geographic portability of benefits and specific needs to support migrant workers. By supporting 
this critical government priority, the proposed operation reinforces the GoI’s focus on social protection and strengthens 
the prospects of results being achieved successfully. Beyond  emergency support to households to tackle impacts of 
lockdowns, the focus of the Bank’s policy dialogue links the social protection response to COVID -19 with broader social 
protection and resilience agenda.  
 
4.2. PRIOR ACTIONS, RESULTS AND ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS 
 
51. Through DPO1, engagement with India on social protection has deepened at the national and sub-national level. 
The Bank has supported Go I’s efforts to strengthen social protection systems for COVID-19 and future shocks through a 
variety of approaches at the national and state level, including providing detailed technical assistance and ‘nuts and bolts’ 

--- PDF PAGE 28 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 25  
     
 
support to efforts of specific line ministries and states. Key policy and institutional reforms envisioned through DPO1 are 
being further bolstered through state lev el projects which build capability of state governments to implement dynamic 
and inclusive delivery systems in West Bengal, Assam, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Kerala. Since the design of DPO 1, COVID-
19 cases have amplified across the country. India now reports the second largest number of cases in the world. Lockdowns 
have become increasingly targeted, as India has started to open key sectors or economic activity as part of its “unlock” 
strategy. At such a critical stage of India’s fight against the pandemic, a dynamic, portable and responsive social protection 
system is urgent. Reforms a nd initiatives underway through DPO1  have allowed the government to  strengthen the 
resilience of citizens through scaling up pre-existing programs for emergency relief. The reforms in the second phase shall 
help address any exclusion from accessing emergency assistance and support  initiatives that improve the capability of 
state’s to both assess and respond to the fault lines revealed in India’s safety net such as dealing with new risks faced by 
migrants, new-poor, urban areas and climate-link disasters.  
 
52. The Prior Actions under DPO2 largely follow the Triggers under DPO1 . They ensure continuity and deepen the 
reforms initiated under DPO1. The actions extend important assistance and insurance measures to be co -terminus with 
the case-burden in India. They also create new protocols and delivery systems for providing cash and employment support 
to vulnerable migrants. Importantly, employment support for migrants shall be provided using a converged approach in 
rural areas. Urban areas shall be able to access a new cash-for-housing program aimed to build resilience of their homes 
and livelihoods. Social insurance and cash tr ansfers for informal workers shall be consolidated through a combined 
National Social Security Board with due authority and defined business processes for delivery.  
 
Pillar I: Leveraging Pre-Existing Social Protection Measures for COVID-19 Relief 
 
53. Actions in DPO 2 aim to address exclusions and populations tha t maybe potentially left -out from receiving 
benefits through measures proposed in DPO1 and the government’s COVID-19 Social Protection Program (PMGKY) . 
Much like DPO1, these measures continue to leverage India’s strong e-payments platforms to re-enforce social assistance 
by approving additional cash payments to the poor and vulnerable. Instead  of creating a new pipeline to deliver cash or 
in-kind assistance, India is uniquely placed to use its  large-scale pre-existing safety nets  -which target the poor and 
vulnerable in large numbers -to deliver disaster responsive social protection .  Scaling up through existing national 
programs provides a stable and functional pipeline to transfer cash to households as these delivery systems are tried and 
tested. Further, these programs use India’s pioneering e -payments architecture whereby b ank account information has 
been verified through recent use , DBT programs rely on Aadhaar for authentication as well, thereby limiting doub le-
dipping of PMGKY benefits.  
 
54. Under DPO 1, the government scaled up the  PMGKY package to provide additional cash assistance to poor  
households and vulnerable groups already receiving cash-benefits from five major national social protection 
programs: (i) Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the largest public works 
program in the world; (ii) Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), which provides gas cylinders and subsidies to 80 million 
below poverty line households in 2019 ; (iii)  National Social Assistance Program (NSAP), which provides social pensions 
to 30 million below poverty line widows, disabled and elderly ; and (iv) Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), a pan -
Prior Action 1: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, has expanded the ability of state 
governments to provide social protection during disasters through the use of up to 50 per cent of State 
Disaster Response Funds leveraging pre-existing decentralized protocols for state governments to access 
financing to provide context-specific, adequate and agile safety nets.   

--- PDF PAGE 29 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 26  
     
 
national financial inclusion platform focused on low -income clientele transfers cash assistance to 204 million female 
account holders and (v) the government is also providing advance payments under the  Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman 
Nidhi ( PM-KSN), a quasi -basic inc ome support program operating for poor and vulnerable rural agriculture workers, 
covering 87 million farmers. Combining these elements, the PMGKY program has accelerated near-universal emergency 
social protection support through cash transfers to 320 million beneficiaries identified by pre-existing national programs.  
 
55. The early results from DPO1 highlight the need for s tate governments to play a crucial role in minimizing 
exclusion and  ensuring speedy delivery of social protection for COVID -19 relief . Each program being leveraged by 
PMGKY to scale up social protection for the poor relies on state governments for delivery and implementation. While 
evidence suggests that MGNREGS, NSAP and UJ JWALA report pro -poor targeting, programs such as PM-KSN exclude 
landless farmers. Further, migrants are at risk of being left out from the current universe of beneficiaries identified by 
national programs under PMGKY as these provide benefits to residents of states only.  Early data from DPO1 results 
tracking finds that there may also be a sizeable share of destitute persons, new-poor and the lower middle-class who are 
not enrolled in the PMGKY scheme universe  and require support . The CMIE post-lockdown survey data shows that 47 
percent of poor (below the $1.90/day line) are not covered by any of the four targeted 26 cash-transfer programs under 
PMGKY. The enrollment gap is similar between male and female headed households (see Table 6). 41 percent of female-
headed households from the bottom 40  percent (based on consumption measures) were not enrolled in any of the cash 
transfer programs, compared to 42 percent of male-headed households. While India has been a pioneer in scaling up cash 
assistance for emergency relief for COVID-19, providing 320 million benefits to women’s PMJDY accounts, gaps in coverage 
remain and can be addressed through the proposed reforms. Therefore, it is critical for States to be able to cater to these 
left-out groups by deploying local service delivery solutions, community-based organizations and the DBT platform to 
reduce exclusion and enhance the speed and scale of the social protection measures , particularly in areas where 
lockdowns are continuing and case -burdens remain high. However, given that many states are facing fiscal stress, state 
governments will need additional support and financing from the national government to tackle additional demands for 
support. Further, agro-climatic variation and diversity of the delivery landscape across states in India will require an 
enabling policy and financing regime whereby state governments have greater flexibility in shaping their social protection 
response to COVID -19 and future disasters, while the national government focuses on monitoring and coordinating 
interventions and facilitating cross-state learning. 
 
Table 6: Enrollment and Benefit Delivery among Bottom 40% Households by Gender of Household Head  
 
Type of Benefit 
Share of Households (%) 
Enrolled in PMGKY 
Sub-Programs 
Share of Enrolled Households 
(%) that received benefits from 
PMGKY27 
 Female 
headed Male headed Female 
headed Male headed 
Food Transfers 86.8 88 80.2 77.2 
Cash Transfers          58.4           57.2 51.7 45.2 
              (Source: Bhattacharya and Roy 2020)  
 
56. State governments are best placed to design and tailor the COVID -19 response to their own communities and 
contexts.  As the India CPF reflects, political economy and the design of Indian administration make state governments an 
 
26 MGNREGS in rural areas is a self-targeting rights-based program.  
27 Share of Enrolled Households (%) that received benefits from PMGKY is self-reported by beneficiaries during a representative 
household survey. These are provisional estimates and shall be updated and finalized after follow-up round of the survey by 
January 2020 

--- PDF PAGE 30 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 27  
     
 
ideal focal point for decision making on a range of critical delivery issues in India. States are entrusted with disaster 
management, in coordin ation with the national government. Even in the context of COVID -19, states are leveraging 
programs, local governments and community -based organizations for service delivery. As part of the COVID response 
measures, S elf-Help Groups (SHGs) have also been ta sked with running community kitchens and delivering prepared 
meals. Approximately 10,000 community kitchens have been set up so far primarily across 75 districts in the five states of 
Bihar, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha . States are also tai loring their approaches to delivering cash 
assistance based on local context. Accessing cash from bank accounts is challenging given social distancing protocols and 
lockdowns. These delivery challenges are compounded in areas which are remote and rural.  Different states are using 
different delivery models. For example, in Kerala, the state government is relying on post -office personnel to deliver 
payments at the beneficiary’s doorstep. In other states, micro-ATMs and the Fair Price Shop network are being activated 
to make sure cash benefits are accessible for households.  
 
57. Through Prior Action 1 in DPO 2 , the proposed program will enable state governments to access funds and 
flexibility in how they roll -out disaster responsive social protection interventions through use of State Disaster 
Response Funds. COVID-19 has been notified as as ‘disaster’ as per India’s national disaster management protocols. In 
March 2020, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under Ministry of Home Affairs has notified State 
governments and Union Territories to u se disaster response funds for COVID -19 management efforts. The NDMA 
provides guidance and regulations for disas ter management in India, and outlines mechanisms for states to access 
funding for disaster relief. A core source of funding for managing disasters is the State Disaster Response Fund. The 
Disaster Management Act, 2005 created the se funds  which are the prim ary response fund available with each State 
government to tackle needs from any notified disaster. However, prior to notifications for PA1 in September 2020, these 
funds were not availabe to states for social protection in the context of disasters, and focus sed largely on providing 
infrastructure, temporary shelter and relief materials. The reform, as described in PA1, enables states to  access half the 
resources in State Disaster Response Funds for social protection in disaster areas, creating rules and regulations for states 
to draw down on funds for social assistance in hot -spot clusters and cater to excluded groups. The norms clearly outline 
mechanisms for oversight whereby  households do not receive double -benefits from PMGKY package and the SDRF – 
stating the State Executive Committee (SEC) mandated by the D iaster Management Act28. The SEC is the  highest-level 
body in States to monitor disaster management, to sanction plans/guidelines and expending of funds, and is empowered 
to authorize state DM departments to withdraw funds from the SDRF. Headed by C hief Secretary of the State (apex 
administrative head of state bureacracy) . 
 
58. The national rules  do not prescribe a one -size-fits-all delivery channel and  allow states to use pre -existing 
protocols for accessing SDRF finances , while using local systems for delivering and targeting social assistance through 
use of digital payments, local governments and community-based organizations for delivery. These initial guidelines shall 
be followed up by additional  ‘nuts and bolts’ support through guidelines  for staggered cash transfer assistance  for 
multiple hazzards beyond the pandemic . The SP and DRM team hav e been working closely t o provide NLTA to ensure 
these provisions yield strong impacts and results. The proposed reform path will help forge a new relationship between 
the national government and states for effective social protection financing and delivery. It will enhance India’s 
preparedness for the current and future health/natural disasters by reorienting the focus of the national 
rules/regulations on disaster management from protecting physical infrastructure towards social protection, thereby 
leading the way for an adaptive social protection system for India.   
 
 
28 For functions and members of the SEC, see page 10 and 11 of the Disaster Management Act here 
https://www.ndmindia.nic.in/images/The%20Disaster%20Management%20Act,%202005.pdf 
 

--- PDF PAGE 31 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 28  
     
 
59. The use of SDRF financing for social protection also signals an important pathway to build a more climate 
sensitive and disaster-resilient social protection system in India. India has suffered economic losses of USD 79.5 billion 
due to climate related disasters in the last 20 years.  Nearly 60% of India’s land area is prone to earthquakes of moderate 
to very high intensity; 12% land is prone to flood and river erosion; out of 7,516 km coastline, 5,700 km is prone to cyclones 
and tsunamis; 68% of the cultivable land is vulnerable to drought, hilly areas are at risk from landslides and avalanches, 
and 15% of landmass is prone to landslides. Due to these factors, the absolute losses incurred by India in 2018 from 
extreme weather events amounted to USD 37.81 billion ( PPP), the highest by any country in the world. The use of the 
financing in the SDRF for state level scalable and adaptive social protection assistance at the time of disasters and 
contingencies such as pandemics is an important step in building a more climate responsive social protection system in 
India.   
 
60. Expected Results: In the immediate term, the action will tr igger enchanced coverage under India’s social 
protection response to the COVID -19 pandemic by enhacing inclusion of previously left -out groups, and enabling the 
new-poor to access s ocial assi stance benefits . It will create a mechanism for an adaptive program which is fast and 
flexible, nationally coordinated, and tailored to the specific needs of states. The use of the SDRF can allow states to 
protect the new -poor who may not be on current program databases being leveraged for PMGKY , such as women and 
female-headed households who may not have PMJDY accounts or families without ration cards for PDS benefits . The 
PMGKY roll-out and additional support to states through the state disaster response funds also enables states to top-up 
assistance (in cases of prolonged lockdowns) and ensure effective delivery.  
 
61. In DPO 1, the government  announced the PMGKAY package which provided three months food rations to 
nearly 800 million people covered by the Public Distribution System till May 2020. At the time of the se early policy 
decissions, the government aimed to extend food rations for the c hronic poor in areas facing large case burdens and 
prolonged lockdowns , as captured by Indicative Trigger 2A in DPO1. However, given (i) food accounts for 56 % of 
expenditures in poor households (ii) majority of Indians are precariously close to the poverty line, and (iii) COVID-19 hot-
spots and cases have continued to accelerate in India since the government initiated it’s ‘unlock’ phase, food support 
has emerged as a critical lifeline for the next phase of recovery.  As a result, the government has extended the provision 
of food rations for India’s unlock phase till November 2020. This action is not reflected in the policy matrix given its 
administative nature. However, the extension is significant as it highlights how PMGKAY reforms supported in DPO1 have 
provided critical and scalable food support.  
 
Pillar II: Protecting Workers in Essential Service Supply Chains during COVID-19 Pandemic 
 
62. Through Prior Action # 5 in DPO1 the government announced the provision of health care and important 
assurance to those who are providing health care and essential services to COVID-19 patients. The government created 
a scheme till June 30th, which would cover health professionals tackling COVID-19 cases such as sanitation workers, ward-
boys, nurses, comm unity health workers (ASHA workers), paramedics and technicians. Th rough PA # 2 in DPO2, the  
program has been expanded. Given the rapid rate of infections in India, the government has extended the health insurance 
scheme for essential health workers till September 2020. The aim is to provide cover for those who are in direct contact 
and care of COVID -19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted. The insurance program extension shall all ow 
Prior Action 2: The Borrower through Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India has 
extended a special health insurance scheme for health workers providing essential care/medical services to 
COVID-19 patients for additional 90 days.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 32 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 29  
     
 
more essential medical service workers to access health insurance during the pandemic, thereby increasing coverage of a 
key group. All details on the program are available in the Program Document for DPO1. 
 
Pillar III: Improving Access and Delivery for Vulnerable Populations 
 
63. Through the proposed operation, the Government of India will rebalance its social protection system towards 
the informal economy, urban areas and social insurance support. Two critical challenges lie ahead for India’s social 
protection path in responding to COVID-19 and future shocks. First, while India has an elaborate set of program databases 
which enable immediate release of cash -transfers in rural areas due to extensive reach of rural safety nets, parallel 
platforms in urban areas are missing. Urban platforms which link beneficiary information with bank details are critical to 
ensure rapid delivery of income-support in the case of any future crisis. Second, while the immediate response to COVID-
19 will require direct provision of cash/in-kind transfers through government financing, long run resilience will necessitate 
a reorientation towards more co -contributory approaches. Such measures are particularly important for women in the 
informal sector –who are often engaged  in poorly paid and insecure contracts. The reform area through Prior Action 3 
addresses these two concerns.  
 
64. Through PA # 3 (previously reflected as Trigger 7B in DPO1), the government has mandated establishment of a 
consolidated National Social Security Board (NSSB) with detailed implementation frameworks to link informal workers 
with beneficiary bank account details through community -based outreach, with emphasis on the urban poor and 
female-headed households29. The NSSB will also pursue the design of incentive mechanisms to bolster demand for core 
social insurance schemes for life (Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana)(PMJJBY), accidents (Pradhan Mantri Suraksha 
Bima Yojana) (PMSBY) and old-age (Atal Pension Yojana) (APY) for all informal workers. While the original Trigger in DPO1 
envisaged this coordinating unit to be jointly managed by Ministry of Housing and Urban Affair s and Department of 
Financial Services, following a series of technical dialogue, the national government decided to drive this reform through 
the Social Security Code 2020 to give the action requisite legislative authority. Further, India’s constitutional jurisdiction 
requires social security issues to be consolidated, managed and implemented by the Ministry of Labor  and Employment 
(MoLE).  
 
65. Prior to the 2020 Social Security Code, there were 29 laws governing labor welfare issues in India. These have 
been consolidated into four new laws --- and one law consolidates all social protection regulations. The objective is to 
streamline the institutional landscape and coordinate interventions better, thereby scaling-up cash and social insurance 
coverage and simultaneously creating a delivery platform for informal workers, with focus on gig-economy workers, urban 
slums and low-income settlements. Before the new Social Security Code of 2020, the Unorganized Workers Social Security 
Act of 2008 governed rules defining which workers were eligible for social protection and the types of risk-insurance 
instruments. Through the 2008 policy, nearly thirty-five fragmented Labor welfare boards were established which 
accorded social security benefits to specific occupations and empowered each individual board to define eligibility rules 
 
29 Last Mile Delivery Options for COVID-19 Note World Bank SPJ 2020 and DDU-NULM Mission Document 
Prior Action 3: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Labour and Employment, has approved and adopted a 
new Social Security Code which includes the roll-out of a National Social Security Board (with online and offline 
interface) to ensure universal  coverage for a basic package of social protection benefits, leveraging the PDS, 
PMJDY, e-KYC, and Aadhar infrastructure; with focus on achieving full coverage of informal workers with focus 
on vulnerable populations and occupations, and a clear approach for decentralized implementation. 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 33 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 30  
     
 
and registration efforts –whereby many informal workers with fluid jobs would be excluded. Many types of workers were 
excluded such as : (i) migrants who were engaged by contractors or were self-employed (ii) those who worked in the 
growing gig-economy and for aggregators (such as Uber, Amazon, online food delivery services etc.) and (iii) thos e who 
worked in enterprises with a workforce of less than t wenty people. These groups constitute nearly 75 percent of India’s 
informal labor force. Due to restrictions in registration for workers based on the size of their employers, funds with these 
labor welfare boards would remain unused. The new code simplifies worker registration for benefits, empowers the MoLE 
to converge pre-existing boards under the new NSSB and expands social protection coverage to these three excluded 
groups –while allowing state governments to implement through pre-existing channels based on local conditions.  
 
66. Expected Results : The 2020 code aims to amend, consolidate and revitalize efforts to scale-up social protection 
for informal workers by offering clear institutional authority  via a consolidated social security organizational platform 
whereby every informal worker, gig worker or platform worker shall be empowered to make an application for registration 
using Aadhaar, with consent and subject to section 2 of the Aadhaar (The Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other 
Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016. Such authority allows for greater coordinat ion (of discrete social protection 
efforts) under the social security boarding thereby increasing coverage of informal workers. The new code, unlike the 
previous Act of 2008, mandates the state and central labor agenc ies to create a system of electronic re gistration for 
beneficiary identification and delivery.  Such reforms are expected to increase coverage of social protection amongst 
informal workers, particularly in urban areas without access to self-targeting rural programs such as MGNREGS. The focus 
on expanding coverage of social protection to informal workers in urban areas is important from a gender lens as well. 
The latest PLFS (2018) data shows that roughly 78 percent of both male and female workers in urban areas are engaged 
in the informal economy. However, women are engaged in sectors such as domestic work, street vending and home-based 
work which are not covered by pre -existing social security measures. The new Social Security Board will include such 
workers thereby expanding the share of working  women enjoying social protection benefits. The results indicators on 
social protection coverage of informal workers  builds on  coverage targets proposed by MoLE . This area will be 
complemented by technical assistance and a n investment operation as it requires support on incentive design, data 
exchange, business protocols and project management challenges. 
 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 34 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 31  
     
 
 
 
67. DPO2 focusses on ensuring coverage gaps identified through DPO1 are adequately addressed through delivery 
systems and mission-mode scaling up of employment/cash/housing support for migrants and the urban poor. Migrants 
and the urban poor are at risk of exclusion from receiving adequate social protection through PMGKY. This  is because 
none of the six national social assistance programs being leveraged to provide additional support are portable as they only 
provide benefits to state residents. Also, the PMGKY package has lower coverage in urban areas. Programs such as PM-
KSN and MGNREGS only operate in rural India. Programs such as UJJWALA, NSAP and PDS report a larger beneficiary base 
in rural India. Given that shocks in urban areas are transmitted to rural areas through a drop-in demand and remittances, 
PMGKY coverage in rural India remains critical. H owever, the rural-urban gap is a major service constraint as COVID -19 
has disproportionate number of cases in urban districts. While reforms through Pillar I will allow more urbanized states to 
develop their own approach using relevant delivery channels  in pandemic hot -spots, this pillar emphasizes broader 
reforms to ensure vulnerable urban groups are able to access social protection support through a targeted approach.  
 
68. In response to the needs of migrant workers in urban areas, the Government of India shall expand the migrant-
neutrality of its social protection approach through a series of reforms. First, through Prior Action 4, the government 
shall implement an ambitious and watershed ‘One Nation One Ration’ system which reforms the current PDS to become 
universal and portable, whereby migrants can access food supplies through Fair Price Shops across state boundaries. Such 
reform in the food subsidy system will not only be beneficia l to tackle food security concerns from the COVID -19 crisis, 
but also puts in place a response capacity which can be rapidly scaled up to address the need of vulnerable groups in any 
future shocks, including those from climate -related natural disasters. Po rtability within the PDS shall require affiliated 
reforms in procurement of grains and management of food stocks. These shall be enabled by current modes of digitized 
grain procurement and deliveries, which can allow the national government to track and es timate costs per state. These 
frameworks are being tested in twelve states. Lessons from these pilots shall be incorporated into technical design. The 
reforms are expected to expedite migrant access to food and adequate social protection relief.  Second, through Prior 
 
Prior Action 4:  The Borrower through Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, has 
approved and adopted mission-mode roll-out of ’One-Nation-One Ration’ platform for pan-national 
portable PDS access to support food rations for all migrants across state boundaries. 
 
Prior Action 5: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, has issued th e 
Operational Guidelines dated July 2020, for an Affordable Rental Housing scheme for migrant labor and 
the urban poor which clearly defines rules and implementation norms. 
 
Prior Action 6: The Borrower through Ministry of Home Affairs, has created a Natio nal Migrants 
Information System which establishes a database of inter -state mobility to target and plan migrant -
specific COVID-19 social assistance support at the state and national level. 
 
Prior Action 7: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Labour and Employment , has: (i) expanded the 
definition of ‘inter-state’ migrants to include those who migrate without a contractor;   (ii) mandated the 
creation of a decentralized portal for migrant registration, to enable portability and universal coverage 
for cash and social insurance benefits, through  the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions 
Code 2020 

--- PDF PAGE 35 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 32  
     
 
Action 5, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs will re-orient its focus towards safety nets targeting the urban poor by 
creating a mission -mode structure which ensures housing rental support. While food accounts for the largest share of 
expenditures of urban households, this is followed by housing expenditures.  
 
69. Improved shelter and urban housing benefits will be particularly important for women in the informal sector –
given home-based work accounts for the largest share of employment for the female informal workforce in urban India30. 
Home-based work is the most important source of employment for women nationally (16 per cent) and in urban India (23 
per cent). While nearly 23 percent of women report their home as a primary place of work to produce garments or other 
goods, only 8 percent of urban working men are home-based workers. The issued guidelines on Affordable Rental Housing 
Complexes (ARHCs) also contribute to the development of climate resilient housing infrastructure  by facilitatin g the 
adoption of innovative, eco -friendly, and disaster -resilient technologies and building materials through provision for 
additional grants for projects to use them to provide safe shelter to the urban poor and migrant communities. Third, 
through Prior Action 6, the Ministry of Home Affairs will create a migrant database to target immediate cash and 
employment support for COVID-19 relief. This effort will help pave the path for an inter-state migrant portal for universal 
use being envisaged through Prior Action 7. At present, India does not hold a repository of such information linked with 
bank account or identification information.  Finally, Prior Action 7 amends the definition of ‘inter-state migrants’ in labor 
laws to include the large ch unk who migrate without a formal contractor or are self -employed –thereby extended basic 
labor protections to these groups. To enable portability  of benefits beyond the current pandemic , the new 2020 
Occupation Safety Code notifies the creation of a portal  for inter-state migrants to access benefits across boundaries 
beyond the immediate relief planned through Prior Action 6. These reforms allow for a pathway for India’s social 
protection system to become portable and migrant friendly. Holistically, these reforms shall ensure migrants have access 
to food, cash and housing support in urban areas. 
 
70. These actions will be complemented by Pillar I reforms which will enable states to design their own door -step 
delivery solutions to ensure payments are made using multiple options such as self-help groups, post-office networks, PDS 
network, e -wallets or mi cro-ATMs. The reforms aim at ensuring timely delivery of social protection benefits to 
underserved communities such as migrants and the urban poor.  
 
 
71. Ensuring vulnerable populations –particularly migrants -- gain access to cash -for-work programs is becoming 
critical as the crisis escalates. The COVID -19 pandemic has triggered movement from urban to rural areas for various 
migrant communities in cities . Despite the ‘unlocking’ of the Indian economy in May 2020, early qualitative evidence 
highlights that many such migrants are reluctant to return to cities for jobs until the crisis abates. Such influx of migrants 
back to rural areas requires targeted support to ensure workers and their families are economically rehabilitated following 
the loss of remittance incomes. Prior Action 8 aims to address such livelihood aspects through the creation of a mission -
mode converged employment support program anchored at the Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India. 
The program aims at providing public works and employment to returne d migrants within targeted states and districts 
which serve as the largest migrant -origin areas in the country. Such targeted employment support is critical to ensure 
households relying on migrant remittances do not fall back into poverty and provide worke rs dignified and productive 
opportunities. Such employment -guarantee programs may also have indirect impacts on urban or local wages as 
 
30 https://www.wiego.org/sites/default/files/publications/file/WIEGO_Statistical_Brief_N24_India.pdf 
Prior Action 8: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Rural Development, has established a converged mission-
mode cash for employment -support program for returning migrants in rural areas called the Garib Kalyan 
Rozgar Abhiyan 
 
 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 36 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 33  
     
 
suggested by evidence on MGNREGS, thereby potentially contributing to higher welfare gains for the poor. At the same 
time, the cash-for work-programs also contribute to improved natural resource management, including climate change 
adaptation outcomes, by generating employments in  resilience-building public works including water conservation, 
watershed management and improvement of rural irrigation infrastructure.  
 
72. Expected Results: These series of reforms (PA3 till PA 8) are expected to increase portability of India’s social 
protection system  through food and cash access . The PMGKRA package aims to provide targeted wage -employment 
support to return migrants in rural areas. Finally, the AHRC initiates the creation of an urban safety nets platform for the 
urban poor. These efforts are expected to scale-up coverage of social protection for groups that are at risk of exclusion –
urban poor and migrants.  
 
73. Despite the efforts of Government of India  to scale up cash transfers for the poor and vulnerable , there are 
recent surveys by DVARA, IndusAction and SWAN which suggest that there is lack of information regarding the 
electronic transfers among beneficiaries. Government of India in partnership with the Reserve Bank of India has 
developed Aadhaar Payments Bridge (APB) payment system, which enables Central and State Ministries/Departments to 
transfer Government-to-Person payments in bulk by linking beneficiaries Aadhaar number with respective Program IDs. 
At backend, a beneficiary Aadhaar number is linked with beneficiary bank account.  
 
74. All programs which include cash transfer component  under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna (PMG KY) 
are processed through the Public Financial Management System (PFMS). The APB system shares a reconciliation report 
with the PFMS system which provides information such as last four digits of the bank account, name of the account, branch 
code, etc. of the recipient beneficiary . Currently, this information is available in pub lic domain, however it can only be 
accessed through the PFMS portal and is not easily accessible to general population. Recently, Ministry of Electronic and 
Information Technology (MeitY) and National e-Governance Division (NeGD) has developed a Unified Mobile Application 
for New-age Governance (UMANG) . As on date, there are total of 875 services 31 currently live on this platform, out of 
which 26 3 are central services and 430 state services. UMANG platf orm allows seamless access of central and state 
services and enables a unified approach for citizens to avail multiple government services. UMANG is accessible through 
multiple channels like web, IVRS, SMS and Mobile application.  
 
75. Through PA # 9, the Direct Benefits Transfer Mission will integrate cash transfers within the UMANG ecosystem, 
which will enable citizens to easily access information related to receipt of benefits transfers from various central and 
state ministries/departments. This initiative will alleviate information gaps among beneficiaries and will enable them to 
access their benefits. The use of mobile technology, together with disaster recovery protocols, ensure that the system is 
resilient and operational in the event of disruption from natural disasters . Ensuring women have better access to such 
mechanisms will require parallel investments in closing digital literacy and ICT -access gaps – which can be addressed 
through state or national investment operations. 
 
76. Expected Results: In keeping with the idea of ‘build back better’, the reform aims to create an improved and 
 
31 https://web.umang.gov.in/web/#/   
Prior Action 9: The Borrower through Direct Benefits Transfer Mission, Cabinet Secretariat, has ordered the 
integration of DBT -related transaction in PFMS with UMANG mobile application, to allow beneficiaries of 
social programs to query and access information regarding electronic transfers. 

--- PDF PAGE 37 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 34  
     
 
citizen-friendly IT -enabled mechanism to access information and alerts for benefit delivery and timeliness of social 
protection payments.  
 
Pillar IV: India Climate Action and Green Recovery 
 
77. Not only are households and firms vulnerable to economic shocks from the pandemic, communities are also 
contending with vulnerability to climate change. In response, the proposed DPO includes a pillar to support core reforms 
to address climate change. Carbon emissions have fallen, and pollution levels are down because of the general economic 
slump caused by the COVID -19 pandemic, offering the chance to shape economic recovery in ways that decouple 
economic growth from climate change. There is now an opportunity to support green infrastructure and other 
development projects including renewable energy/energy efficiency investments, climate -smart buildings, green and 
resilient public transport, and other needed systemic shifts to slow the trajectory of rising CO2 levels in the atmosphere. 
At the same time, with impending climate risks, it is critical to systematically integrate and mainstream climate adaptation 
responses, while helping vulnerable communities cope with extreme weather situations that disproportionately affect the 
poor, especially women. Investing in resilience is crucial, as disruptions are extremely costly for governments, households, 
and the private sector. There is now a great opportunity within these unfortunate circumstances to build back better. Two 
core reforms are supported to enable green reco very and resilience – enhanced groundwater conservation norms and 
incentives for renewable energy use.   
 
 
78. In contrast to surface water resources, groundwater is more resilient to changing climate trends.  It serves as 
one of the largest reservoirs of fresh water and plays a critical role in supplying drinking water, water for irrigation, 
industrial use and to sustain ecosystems. Groundwater reserves being resilient to drought impact, have been a sustainable, 
dependable and cost-effective solution to ensure water security in the face of the emerging water crisis. However, in the 
recent past, there has been an increasing incidence of groundwater contamination through percolation of surface water 
into aquifers and changing usage pattern. Thus, it has become an imperative to protect groundwater systems and their 
adjacent ecosystems in conjunction with the surface water resources while adapting to climate change. In India, rainfall 
(monsoon and non -monsoon) contributes to 67% of groundwater recharge . Overexploitation of groundwater  coupled 
with intensive extraction for irrigation and industrial purposes have resulted in critical groundwater management 
concerns in the country. Some of the major consequences of grou ndwater withdrawal at a rate higher than that of 
recharge are- depletion of water tables, saltwater encroachment, drying of aquifers, groundwater pollution, water logging 
and salinity. 
 
Prior Action 10: The Borrower through the Ministry of Jal Shakti, has issued Revised Guidelines for Groundwater 
Extraction in India which (i) introduce the concept of Water Conservation Fee (WCF) (ii) encourage use of recycled 
and treated sewage water by industries (iii) create provision for actions against polluting industries (iv) mandate  
requirement of digital flow meters, piezometers and digital water level recorders (with or without telemetry 
depending upon quantum of extraction) (v) mandate water audit by industries abstracting ground water 500 
m3/day or more in safe and semi-critical and 200 m3/day or more in critical and over-exploited assessment units 
and (vi) mandate roof top rain water harvesting except for specified industries. 
 
Prior Action 11: The Borrower through the Ministry of Power, has extended the waiver of inter-state transmission 
charges and losses on the transmission of  electricity generated by solar and wind sources to encourage use of 
renewable energy in India. 
 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 38 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 35  
     
 
79. To counter these challenges, and as a major step towards sustainable m anagement of water resources in the 
country, the Central Ground Water Board has published a notification with groundwater abstraction guidelines to 
monitor and conserve groundwater resources.  The DPO supports PA 10 which captures the new groundwater 
conservation norms. As per the reform, all new or existing industries seeking expansion, infrastructure projects and mining 
projects will be required to seek No Objection Certificates to abstract groundwater, from the Central Ground Water 
Authority or the concerned state authority. Depending on the level ground water, the entire country has been categorized 
into over-exploited, critical and semi critical areas. Of the total 6554 assessment units, 4484 (68%) has been categorized 
as safe, 693 (11%) as semi -critical, 217 (3%) as critical, 1069 (16%) as over -exploited and 91 (1%) as saline. It stresses on 
the preparation of Water Management plans by state ground water authorities or organization of all over -exploited, 
critical and semi -critical assessment units. These plans are to be reviewed and updated periodically and to increase 
efficiency of these initiatives, groundwater abstraction charges are to be levied based on quantum of extraction by the 
industries, mining and infrastructure projects in safe, semi-critical and critical assessment units. 
 
80. PA 11 focusses on expanding the use of renewable energy sources.  India is the world’s third largest producer 
and fourth largest consumer of electricity, with coal dominating about 75% of the total electricity generation. Electricity 
generation is the highest source of greenhouse gas emissions, accounting for more than 40% of the total emissions as per 
official inventories. The second reform  under this pillar is  a government order from Ministry of Power waives off inter -
state transmission charges and losses on transmission of the electricity generated from solar and wind sources of energy 
to facilitate energy transition to cleaner sources and accelerate decarbonization of electricity sector.   
 
Table 5: DPF Prior Actions and Analytical Underpinnings 
 
  Prior Actions (Update)                                 Analytical Underpinnings 
(be specific about the key findings informing the prior action) 
Operation Pillar 1: Leveraging Pre-existing Social Protection Measures for COVID-19 relief 
Prior Action 1:  The Borrower, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, has 
expanded the ability of state governments to provide social protection during 
disasters through the use of up to 50 per cent of S DRF leveraging pre-existing 
decentralized protocols for state governme nts to access financing to provide 
context-specific, adequate and agile safety nets.   
 
 
 
Adaptive Social Protection: Building Resilience to Shocks. Social Protection and Jobs 
Global Practice, World Bank, 2020  
 
From Intent to Implementation: A Snapshot of India’s Social Protection Response to 
COVID-19, Bhattacharya and Roy 2020 
 
  Pathways to Reducing Poverty and Sharing Prosperity in India: Lessons from the Last 
Two Decades, Poverty and Equity Global Practice, World Bank, 2016 
 
India Poverty and Equity Brief, Poverty and Equity Global Practice, World Bank, 
October 2019 
 
Beaten or Broken: Informality and COVID-19, South Asia Economic Focus, Fall 2020, 
World Bank  
 
The Efficacy of Government Entitlements in Helping PL Families Navigate the 
Financial Impacts of COVID-19, Dalberg Asia, April 15th 2020 
 
White Paper on PM Garib Kalyan Yojana: Coverage, Identification and 
Implementation, IDFC Institute, 11th April 2020 
 
Social Protection Financing and COVID-19 Policy Note, Centre for Policy Research, 
11th April 2020 
 
Social Protection and Jobs Responses to COVID-19: A Real-Time Review of Country 
   
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 39 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 36  
     
 
Measures A “living paper”, World Bank Social Protection and Jobs Global Practice,  
v.1 March 20, 2020 
 
Schemes to Systems: Social Protection in a Transforming India, World Bank Social 
Protection and Jobs Practice 2019 
 
Social Protection for a Changing India, World Bank Social Protection and Jobs Practice 
2011 
 
Migration and COVID-19, World Bank Social Protection and Jobs Global Practice,  
March 31st 2020 
 
Last-Mile Delivery Options for COVID-19 Relief in India, World Bank Social Protection 
and Jobs Practice, March 28th 2020 
 
Data Privacy and Regulations for India COVID-19 Program, World Bank Social 
Protection and Jobs Practice, March 29th 2020 
 
 
 
Operation Pillar 2: Protecting Workers in Essential Service Supply Chains during COVID-19 Pandemic 
Prior Action 2: The Borrower through Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India has ex tended a special health insurance scheme for 
health workers providing essential care/medical services to COVID-19 patients 
for additional 90 days. 
Last-Mile Delivery Options for COVID-19 Relief in India, World Bank Social Protection 
and Jobs Practice, March 28th 2020 
 
Operation Pillar 3: Improving Access and Delivery for Vulnerable Populations  
Prior Action 3: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Labour and Employment, 
has approved and adopted a new Social Security Code which includes the roll-
out of a National Social Security Board (with online and offline interface) to 
ensure universal  coverage for a basic package of social protection benefits, 
leveraging the PDS, PMJDY, e -KYC, and Aadhar infrastructure; with focus on 
achieving full coverage of informal workers in urban and rural areas, and a clear 
approach for decentralized implementation. 
 
 
Leveraging Community-Based Organizations in COVID-19 Emergency Operations in 
India, Agriculture and Environment Global Practices, World Bank 14th April 2020 
 
White Paper on PM Garib Kalyan Yojana: Coverage, Identification and 
Implementation, IDFC Institute, 11th April 2020 
 
Social Protection Financing and COVID-19 Policy Note, Centre for Policy Research, 
11th April 2020 
 
Economic Survey of India 2016, Ministry of Finance, Government of India 
 
India’s Internal Labor Migration Paradox, FCI Practice, World Bank Policy Paper 8356, 
February 2018 
 
Schemes to Systems: Social Protection in a Transforming India, World Bank Social 
Protection and Jobs Practice 2019 
 
Social Protection for a Changing India, World Bank Social Protection and Jobs Practice 
2011 
 
Migration and COVID-19, World Bank Social Protection and Jobs Global Practice,  
March 31st 2020 
 
Last-Mile Delivery Options for COVID-19 Relief in India, World Bank Social Protection 
and Jobs Practice, March 28th 2020 
 
Data Privacy and Regulations for India COVID-19 Program, World Bank Social 
Protection and Jobs Practice, March 29th 2020 
 
Report of the High Level Committee on Deepening of Digital Payments, Reserve 
Prior Action 4: :  The Borrower through Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and 
Public Distribution, Government of India has approved and adopted mission -
mode roll-out of ’One-Nation-One Ration’ platform for pan-national portable PDS 
access to support food rations for all migrants across state boundaries. 
Prior Action 5: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Affairs, has issued the Operational Guidelines dated July 2020, for an 
Affordable Rental Housing scheme for migrant Labor and the urban poor 
which clearly defines rules and implementation norms. 
 
 
Prior Action 6: The Borrower through Ministry of Home Affairs, Government 
of India has created a National Migrants Information System which 
establishes a database of inter-state mobility to target and plan migrant-
specific COVID-19 social assistance support at the state and national level. 
 
Prior Action 7: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment , has: (i) expanded the definition of ‘inter-state’ migrants to 
include those who do not migrate without a contractor;  and (ii) mandated 
the creation of a decentralized portal for migrant registration, to enable 
portability and universal coverage for cash and social insurance benefits, 
through  the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 

--- PDF PAGE 40 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 37  
     
 
2020 Bank of India, May 2019 
 
Informal Workers in India: A Statistical Profile. August 2020. Govindan Raveendran 
and Joann Vanek, WIEGO 
 
Unintended Consequences of Lockdowns: Covid-19 and the Shadow Pandemic. 
NBER. September 2020. Ravindran, Saravana and Manisha Shah. 
 
A Mixed-Method Review of Cash Transfers and Intimate Partner Violence in Low 
and Middle-Income Countries. The World Bank Observer, Volume 33, Issue 2. Page 
218-258. September 2018. Ana Maria Buller, Amber Peterman, Meghna Ranganathan, 
Alexandra Bleile, Melissa Hidrobo and Lori Heise 
 
Violence against Women as a ‘Relational’ Vulnerability. Naila Kabeer. UNDP Paper 
Series. 2014 
 
How is economic security linked to gender-based violence? New insights from the 
Sexual Violence Research Initiative Forum 2019. December 2019. Amber Peterman, 
Shalini Roy and Meghna Ranganathan. IFPRI 
 
Men, Masculinity and Domestic Violence Against Women in Marriage: Case Studies 
and Analysis ICRW 2016. 
Prior Action 8: The Borrower, through the Ministry of Rural Development, 
has established a converged mission-mode cash for employment-support 
program for returning migrants in rural areas called the Garib Kalyan Rojgar 
Yojna 
 
Prior Action 9: The Borrower through Direct Benefits Transfer Mission, 
Cabinet Secretariat, has ordered the integration of DBT-related transaction 
in PFMS with UMANG mobile application, to allow beneficiaries of social 
programs to query and access information regarding electronic transfers. 
                         
Operation Pillar 4: India Climate Action Pillar 
 
Prior Action 10: The Borrower through the Ministry of Jal Shakti, has issued 
Revised Guidelines for Groundwater Extraction in India which (i) introduce 
the concept of Water Conservation Fee (WCF) (ii) encourage use of recycled 
and treated sewage water by industries (iii) create provision for actions 
against polluting industries (iv) mandate  requirement of digital flow meters, 
piezometers and digital water level recorders (with or without telemetry 
depending upon quantum of extraction) (v) mandate water audit by 
industries abstracting ground water 500 m3/day or more in safe and semi-
critical and 200 m3/day or more in critical and over-exploited assessment 
units and (vi) mandate roof top rain water harvesting except for specified 
industries.  
 
SAR Human Capital Acceleration Plan, World Bank 2020  
 
 
Central Ground Water Board Groundwater Yearbook India 2018-19. Government of 
India, 2019 
 
Climate change and water security:  
impacts, future scenarios, adaptations and mitigations.  
Kibria, G., Haroon, A. Y., & Nugegoda, D. (2016).  
 
Ministry of Jal Shakti. (2019, June 27). Vulnerable and Overexploited Areas. 
Government of India 
 
University of Sussex-UCL (2020, August 26). Majority of groundwater stores resilient to 
climate change. 
 
India 2020: Energy Policy Review, International Energy Agency 2020 
 
Global Climate Risk Index 2020 
 
Conditional cash transfers to alleviate poverty also reduced deforestation in Indonesia. 
Paul. J Ferraro and Rhita Simorangkir. June 2020 
Prior Action 11 : The Borrower through the Ministry of Power has extended 
the waiver of inter-state transmission charges and losses on the 
transmission of the electricity generated by solar and wind sources to 
encourage use of renewable energy in India. 
 
4.3. LINK TO CPF, OTHER BANK OPERATIONS AND THE WBG STRATEGY 
 
81. World Bank program in India has been being adjusted to respond to the COVID -19 crisis. The World Bank in 
consultations with the Indian Government has developed a three stage COVID response strategy.  The first stage has been 
supporting the health system to help fight the pandemic and a billion-dollar program was approved by the World Bank to 
support the health response.  The health response has required the Government to effectively shut down large chunks of 
the economy for social distancing to slow the spread of the epidemic. This slowdown has displaced hundreds of millions 
of workers. Migrant labor and the poor -who have little or no capacity to weather loss in earnings- are severely impacted.  

--- PDF PAGE 41 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 38  
     
 
The second stage of the World Bank response to provide social protection to those displaced by the economic shut down, 
with emphasis on the poor and vulnerable, through the proposed two DPO series providing a billion dollars for social 
protection. The third phase of the World Bank COVID-19 response will to help revive the economy through another billion-
dollar program to support Micro -small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and possibly support the financial system on 
which MSME depends. 
 
82. While the current DPO is a direct response to the COVID-19 crisis, it is consistent with the approach of the India 
Country Partnership Framework (CPF)32. A key goal of the CPF is to promote human capital investments by strengthening 
the coverage and coordination of state level social protection delivery systems. The CPF supports the development agenda 
of India through a balanced focus on what areas of intervention are critical, while also identifying pathways which outline 
how to engage India to 1/4 is a lot those patients have a higher risk of being from the ventilator they have a higher risk of 
dying before they get out of the hospital there are concerns that there is a higher risk for long term deliver results. This 
operation supports the CPF f ocus on strengthening public sector institutions and engaging a Federal India through its 
emphasis on decentralization. Finally, it supports a cross -cutting theme of the CPF on reducing gender -based inclusion 
gaps. 
 
4.4. CONSULTATIONS AND COLLABORATION WITH DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS 
 
83. The proposed DPO relies on extensive consultations with Bank clients in state governments and national 
programs in India.  The proposed operation has benefitted from the Bank’s extensive analytical work on India’s social 
protection architecture with various academics and experts. The design incorporates lessons from engagement in several 
states and with the national DBT Mission on social protection reform through operations and technical support. The design 
also incorporates rapid reviews conducted by two national think -tanks for the World Bank. Implementation of the 
government program supported by this DPO series will require intensive Technical Assistance (TA) to the central and state 
governments. Discussions with Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) on a Trust Fund partnership have been 
completed and led to the expansion of the World Bank’s TA through additional funds which shall be available throughout 
the DPO program period for implementation and monitoring support. KfW and Asian Development  are also providing 
technical assistance support. To harmonize efforts and avoid duplication, a donor working group has been set up to meet 
regularly to coordinate and take stock of the technical assistance program.  
 
5. OTHER DESIGN AND APPRAISAL ISSUES 
 
5.1. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT 
 
84. The program’s development objective is to support vulnerable groups through near-universal and portable 
social assistance, as it recognizes that pre -existing vulnerabilities (based on social identities) can be amplified during 
lockdowns and periods of social isolation.  The Bank recognizes that the COVID -19 crisis is a difficult period to address 
social fault lines fully and satisfactorily. Overall, the program enables states to access monies from Disaster Response 
Funds to provide benefits to those at risk of exclusion – thus leveraging India’s federalism. The focus on portability of 
benefits is an important strategy to cover left -out groups. Inclusion is therefore at the heart of this program’s design. A 
few important areas are described below:  
 
 
32 India: FY18-22; Report No. 126667-IN, July 25, 2018 discussed at the Board on September 20, 2018. 

--- PDF PAGE 42 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 39  
     
 
85. Gender Based Violence and Exclus ion: The global data from the WHO on Gender -Based Violence (GBV) during 
the COVID -19 lockdown is worrisome. Ravindran and Shah (2020) 33 have shown that districts with higher intensity of 
government’s mandated lockdown experienced higher rates of domestic violence and cybercrime complaints during the 
pandemic period. Districts in which a greater proportion of spouses viewed domestic violence as justified saw larger 
increases in domestic violence complaints during this period . The proposed program’s focus on directly transferring 
benefits to women is aimed at redressing the amplified gender -based vulnerabilities at this time. As per survey data 
collected for M&E of DPO1, between May and August 2020, nearly 72 per cent of women in the bottom 40th wealth quintile 
with PMJDY bank accounts received a cash transfer benefit. In the same time period, nearly 75 per cent of female-headed 
households received rice allocations under PDS benefits of PMGKY. Additionally, PDS provides extra food supplies to 
female-headed families. Of the 320 million beneficiaries of cash transfers under PMGKY, 204 million are women. Further, 
the fuel supply program provides benefits to the female heads of 80 million households. 60% of social pension (NSAP) 
recipients are wome n. A large body of evidence 34 highlights that providing cash/resources to women enhances their 
bargaining power, dignity and ability to exit violent households. Also, sociological evidence from India highlights that 
domestic violence against children/women perpetrated by men often has psycho-social roots in economic distress35. The 
main triggers for violence are often the increased economic hardships faced by families and the outcome of the fear and 
anxieties that families and communities have about the fut ure. Addressing the immediate triggers – i.e. lessening 
economic hardships – also has a positive effect as they lessen the risk of abuse and violence on women and children. Cash 
and in -kind transfers are therefore important, not only to improve women’s pos ition, but also to reduce 
consumption/income stress in the household. Finally, the program will continue to closely monitor data on (i) benefit 
receipt by gender (ii) violence through administrative data on GBV cases and parallel surveys. However, it should be noted 
that the ability of surveys to pick up GBV is limited due to reluctance to report by victims. By delivering majority share of 
benefits to women, prior actions planned under the DPO will build on the positive gender impacts of DPO1.  
 
86. Scheduled Tribes. Tribal groups have the highest poverty rate in India – irrespective of consumption poverty or 
multi-dimensional poverty indicators. The social protection programs being leveraged for COVID -19 relief give extra 
weightage to tribal households (due to constitutional protections accorded to these groups) in targeting of benefits. Nearly 
94 percent of scheduled tribe households have access to the PDS, 40% of employment days generated through MGNREGS 
are for SC/ST groups. Approximately 74 percent of schedu led tribe households accessed rice benefits under the PDS 
component of PMGKY. However, cash coverage has been lower. Continued monitoring of results and technical assistance 
at the state level, to ensure tribal communities have adequate access to benefits , will an important area of engagement 
going forward. Further, all actions supporting portable benefits for migrants will help tribal communities as they constitute 
a large section of inter-state migrants in India.  
 
87. Portability and Migrant Communities: The program aims to make India’s social protection system more inclusive 
for migrant communities through reforms which make food, cash and social insurance programs portable. COVID-19 has 
been classified as a ‘disaster’ by the national government. This allows state governments to use funds in the State Disaster 
Response Funds (PA 7) to provide support to migrants. This reform has already allowed several states to leverage NGOs, 
self-help groups, police, educational institutes, front line worker s and the PDS machinery to provide on -demand 
food/shelter/relief materials to migrants without seeking any proof of eligibility or registration. There is no singular 
 
33 Ravindran, Saravana and Manisha Shah. “Unintended Consequences of Lockdowns: Covid-19 and the Shadow Pandemic”. 
NBER. September 2020. www.nber.org/papers/w27562.pdf   
34 https://academic.oup.com/wbro/article/33/2/218/5091868 and https://www.ifpri.org/blog/how-economic-security-linked-
gender-based-violence-new-insights-sexual-violence-research  
35 https://www.icrw.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/Domestic-Violence-in-India-4-Men-Masculinity-and-Domestic-Violence-
in-India.pdf  

--- PDF PAGE 43 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 40  
     
 
national model for providing support to migrants as states have flexibility in how they ma nage the process. In DPO1, 
PMGKY provides portable shelter/food/lumpsum cash using State Disaster Response Funds. In DPO2, cash transfers will 
be further scaled up for migrants, near poor/vulnerable and urban poor through Trigger 1A and Trigger 7B.  
 
88. Personal data collection and processing risks. The C OVID-19 outbreak highlights the need to monitor and 
mitigate risks related to data misuse, under circumstances where measures to ensure the legitimate, appropriate and 
proportionate use and processing of that data may not feature in national law or data governance regulations, or be 
routinely collected and managed in health information systems.   The portion of the Program supported under the first 
DPO of the series did not require the collection on new data but will exclusively rely on existing data collected by the 
various existing social protection programs involved. Further, for the second DPO in the series, data is only being 
collected for PA 6. Under this action, name, age, origin and destination distric t and mobile number of migrants using 
government transport services to return home due to the pandemic is being collected  with citizen consent and 
signatures. The data shall not be available in identifiable form for public use. It is only stored as a dashb oard for state 
governments to monitor flow of migrants for planning social assistance and relief activities.  Mobile numbers can be 
made availabe to authorized officials for contract tracing. These data collection are regulated under existing IT acts and 
guidelines. However, data misuse can emerge as a risk. The team shall work closely with India CMU, civil society partners 
and partners to ensure that technical assistance to be provided to the social protection sector alongside this DPO series, 
will seek to  incorporate good international practice for dealing with such data in such circumstances.   Such measures 
include, by way of example, data minimization (collecting only data that is necessary for the purpose), data accuracy 
(correct or erase data that are not necessary or are inaccurate), use limitations (data are only used for legitimate and 
related purposes), data retention (retain data only for as long as they are necessary), informing data subjects of use and 
processing of data, and allowing data subjec ts the opportunity to correct information about them. The team is actively 
engaging, along with India CMU, with legal experts in India to track the Personal Data Protection Bill, which is expected 
to be tabled in parliament in March 2021. Further, the team shall ensure that all design reccomendations pursue privacy-
by-design principles leveraging federated views of data and citizen audits. It is also important to acknowledge that data 
privacy concerns are an important agenda in Indian politics and community -mobilization at present.  
 
89. This is a multi-pronged emergency relief DPO that builds on the achievements of DPO1 and reinforces the need 
for multiple central and state government agencies to work in consonance for outcomes that have positive poverty and 
social impacts and help prevent further social and economic distress. In DPO 1, survey results show that PMGKY benefits 
reached a significant proportion of poorer households, especially female headed households, and that an evidence based, 
data driven approa ch worked for better targeting. DPO 2 will build on the lessons learnt from DPO 1 and focus on 
strengthening institutional mechanisms and making social protection delivery systems more efficient at the central and 
state levels covering a diverse range of i nterventions as indicated in the PAs. Relieving the Covid 19 triggered social and 
economic distress amongst the most vulnerable groups – informal workers, migrant workers and returnee migrant 
workers – will be at the core of the interventions for DPO2.  
 
5.2. ENVIRONMENTAL, FORESTS, AND OTHER NATURAL RESOURCE ASPECTS 
 
90. The program will not have any negative impact on the environment, forests and natural resources.  Provision of 
LPG will improve community and environmental health through access to a clean fuel. It will reduce the use of firewood, 
and its associated indoor pollution and deforestation. As climate projections indicate the worsening of climatic conditions 
and resulting natural disasters, the program helps activate an adaptive social protection system by enabling use of state 
disaster response funds to provide fast and flexible cash support to workers and households to address the impacts of 
disasters triggered by climate change, thereby helping the climate adaptation agenda. The design of the social protection 

--- PDF PAGE 44 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 41  
     
 
prior actions promotes climate change mitigation specially Prior Actions 1 in both DPOs in the series. Under DPO 1, Prior 
Action 1 provided additional clean energy subsidies to the poor through Ujwala.  Under DPO 2, Prior Action 1 increases 
flexibility in use of national and state disaster response funds which will lot only help with COVID responses but creates a 
flexible system which can be deployed in future climate related disasters such as floods and cyclones.  Beyond the climate 
change elements of the social protection, this DPO also includes a climate change pillar which is now required for all India 
DPOs. 
 
5.3. PFM, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING ASPECTS 
 
91. A Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment (PEFA), 2010 was conducted in India by  National Institute of Public 
Finance and Policy (NIPFP) with support from World Bank, which  concluded that PFM systems are working adequately 
and the Country fiduciary risk is moderate.  Subsequent assessments and technical work have been undertaken by the 
Bank at Union level in several areas such as Planning, Budgeting (program), Financial reporting (IFMIS), Public Investment 
Management, Chart of Accounts, Government Finance Statistics (GFS) and Financial/Performance Auditing. Following are 
the main strengths and weaknesses of the system:   
• India has achieved a reas onably high level of fiscal transparency and the comprehensiveness of the fiscal 
information publicly available has improved over the years. 
• Adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM) has led to presentation of fiscal policy 
strategy documents and projected major fiscal indicators in the medium term. General Government budget is 
publicly disclosed.  
• The budget documents contain relevant information on macroeconomic forecasts, fiscal deficit indicators, deficit 
financing sources, government borrowings and debt stock. However overall budget credibility is impacted by the 
absence of a hard budget constraint, thereby allowing substantial adjustments in the budget during the year 
through supplementary grants. 
• There is scope for further strengthening budgetary preparation and approval procedures (e.g. the Budget Manual) 
and in the manner it is controlled. 
• There is scope for unifying and improving public financial management (PFM) systems in India which are currently 
dis-jointed36.  Public expenditures may be made at the national —or, union —level, through 28 states, or 715 
districts. The expenditure commitment controls are not effective and cash management is not integrated with 
control over commitments.  
• There is a scope for further streamlining and enhancing financial rules for effective internal expenditure control. 
Internal audit has continued to remain a weak link in the financial management system.  
• The Constitution provides for Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) to act independently as a statutory 
auditor of Union and States. CAG provides a range of audits such as regularity (financial) audit, regularity 
(compliance) audit, IT audit and performance audit. The audit reports are usually made available to the public 
within a year from the end of the FY and is submitted to the legislature. The independence of the CAG and auditing 
standards are acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
92. Public procurement is decentralized to Ministries, States and Public Sector undertakings. Public p rocurement is 
government by General Financial Rules 2017 at Federal Level and Public Financial Rules at State Levels. Some States have 
promulgated Public Procurement Acts. As part of COVID -19 response, Federal Government has issued orders and 
instructions to streamline public procurement processes. These instructions have included designating agencies for 
 
36 An Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) incorporating systems for management of personnel 
database and payroll records at central government level in India does not exist. 

--- PDF PAGE 45 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 42  
     
 
procurement of goods for COVID response, greater use of Government e -market Portal, removal of import duties for a 
period to key products and ingredients  and simplified tender processes. Bank  is carrying out country procurement 
assessment using the Methodology for Assessing Public Procurement Systems (MAPS) and final report is expected in 
September 2020. Preliminary findings show that India has a moderately well-functioning public procurement system with 
islands of excellence. Over 80% of procurement is carried out through open competition procedures and use of e -
procurement is mandatory and used by procuring entities throughout the country. However, the sy stem has some 
weaknesses that relate to weak bidder complaint systems, long procurement cycle time from initiation to contract award, 
delays on contract execution and absence of strategic use of data for development and monitoring of the system. 
 
93. Foreign Exchange Controls: The World Bank has reasonable assurance that the control environment for foreign 
exchange in the Reserve bank of India (RBI), which is the Central Bank of India, is satisfactory for the purposes of this DPO. 
This assessment is based on t he RBI audit report and the satisfactory outcomes of other operations, which have been 
disbursed and managed through the RBI. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has not carried out a Safeguard 
Assessment of the Central Bank (RBI) so far. As part of the preparation for this operation, the RBI’s audit report and 
published annual financial statements for the three financial years (FY16-17, FY17-18 and FY18-19), were reviewed by the 
World Bank. The audit reports have a clean, unqualified opinion and was cond ucted by private firms of chartered 
accountants.  
 
94. Disbursement: The proposed operation will follow the Bank’s disbursement procedures for Development Policy 
Financing. Upon effectiveness, the borrower, that is, the GoI will submit, to the World Bank, a withdrawal application. The 
World Bank will disburse the U.S. dollar proceeds of the facility to the GoI’s account with the RBI. This account is controlled 
by the Office of the Controller of Aid, Accounts, and Audit of the Department of Economic Affairs, GoI  and is part of the 
GoI’s general foreign exchange reserves. Once the amount is credited it will be added to the consolidated fund of GOI and 
will be available as part of the general budget proceeds. The GoI will confirm to the World Bank within 30 days, the receipt 
of the tranche and its credit into the consolidated fund of the India. The loan proceeds for this operation do not finance 
specifically agreed activities. The proceeds may be used for any general purpose, in support of the program, other than 
for financing excluded expenditures (as defined in the legal agreement for the operation). If any amount of the proceeds 
is used to finance excluded expenditures, the legal agreements will authorize the World Bank to require India to refund 
the amount. The amounts so refunded shall be cancelled from the loan. 
Overall, the fiduciary risk of the proposed operation is rated moderate. This rating is based on the current status of PFM 
systems, procurement systems and Forex control environment in the country. 
Use of PFMS 
 
95. GOI makes funds available to several Central Sponsored/Sector Schemes through departmental budgets, where 
in resources are transferred as ‘Grant in Aid’ to central level autonomous, semi -autonomous institutions under the 
administrative control of ministries. This ‘Grant in Aid’ is released by line ministries in two to three instalments. Agencies 
submit Utilization Certificates, confirming end use of funds and seek replenishment. The treasury uses the newly 
developed Project Financial Management System (PFMS) platform to electronically transfer and account for payments to 
vendors, suppliers and staff. Considerable progress in cash management has been made in recent years with the use of 
PFMS for Direct Benefit Transfers to the bank acc ounts of program beneficiaries – covering large programs such as 
MNREGA, NSAP, PMAY, PAH AL – thereby improving transparency, accountability and governance in the DBT 
administration.  
 
96. There exists a substantive opportunity at Union level to leverage earlier PFM reforms and further augment 

--- PDF PAGE 46 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 43  
     
 
revenue collection, enhance expenditure efficiency and create more headroom for undertaking larger productive 
investments37. Till now India has not un dertaken a comprehensive, coordinated PFM reform: instead, reforms have 
occurred as standalone reform initiatives of individual Union or state government departments. The most significant 
financial management reform in recent years is the expansion in the use of Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT), which has been 
driven from the Prime Minister’s Office and supported by dedicated institution, the DBT Mission. Most states have 
launched PFM reforms, often in parallel, rarely in coordin ation with each other or with the Union. State initiatives have 
included measures to strengthen cash management, introduce commitment controls and most have featured investments 
in new Financial Management Information Systems. However, the scope for state-led reforms is also constrained by their 
dependence on Government of India (GoI) and Comptroller and Account General (CAG) in setting the presentation of 
financial statements, accounting and reporting standards, reforms in budget orientation and benchmarks for financial and 
fiscal transparency. World Bank is actively engaged with Fifteenth Finance Commission, Department of Expenditure and 
Department of Economic Affairs in helping develop the next steps in this regard.  
 
5.4. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY 
       
97. The program will leverage knowledge partnerships t o track impacts and results . The team has already been 
collaborating with knowledge partners such as JPAL, EPoD, IDFC and CPR on taking stock of India’s social protection 
programs through ongoing A dvisory Services and Analytics. These partnerships shall be critical to track impacts and 
implementation challenges as we move forward. The team will rely on four datasets for results : (i) Panel survey data for 
Results Indicators 1,2,3,6 and 7. The Bank has included PMGKY relevant questions into the dataset in partnership with the 
Poverty GP (ii) Administrative data on program releases and bank account transactions maintained by MoLE on 
beneficiaries for Results Indicator 4 . (iii) Administrative data on coverage under the One Nation One Ration initiative by 
PDS line agency for Results Indicator 5 (iv) Administrative data from Ministry of Power on renewable energy use for Results 
Indicator 9.  
 
98. First round results from the M&E arrangements highlights how food transfers have reached the poorest, while 
cash delivery continues to be a challenge , and how rural access has stronger than urban . Data shows that the PDS has 
provided food security to a large fraction of poorest househ olds during the lockdown period.  Seventy -six percent of 
households below the 40th percentile of the welfare distribution, accessed the PDS system in the months of May and June. 
Overall, survey data found 32 percent of households reported insufficient access to food items during these months. The 
PDS catered food supplies to 80 percent of these vulnerable households. The Jan Dhan cash transfers reached about 45 
percent of the poorest households during May and June 2020. 76 p ercent of rural households enrolled in the program 
prior to COVID-19, received the designated transfer of Rs. 500 per month, while 63 percent of enrolled urban households 
received this transfer amount. These early results highlight the need to invest in dynamic systems of inclusion to cater to 
left-out populations, as envisaged through the Prior Actions for DPO2. 
 
99. As the program further develops, the team will use additional national representative sample survey data and 
MIS platforms maintained by the nati onal government to record and report results. The PMGKY program scales up in 
kind and cash assistance provided by five national cash transfer programs and the Public Distribution System. Each of 
these programs falls under the monitoring purview of the Deve lopment Monitoring and Evaluation Office of the NITI 
Aayog. These programs also maintain their own Management Information System (MIS) portals which report on 
transactions and benefit delivery. The M&E function will be further augmented through Bank Financ ed TA. As a method 
 
37 See WB report to Fifteenth Finance Commission  - “Strengthening Public Financial Management in India – Improving 
Outcomes from Public Spending” 

--- PDF PAGE 47 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 44  
     
 
of triangulation, the national Direct Benefits Transfer mission is responsible for coordinating and developing standard 
operating procedures to ensure that beneficiaries are receiving their benefits in a timely manner. Currently, the DBT  
mission is monitoring disbursements of benefits for all programs within the DPO boundary.  
 
100. Information dissemination and effective grievance redressal is key to deal with the COVID -19 crisis. Given the 
multiple government departments and agencies involved in the implementation of various social protection  initiatives 
under PMGKY at the Central and State / UT Government levels, and the millions of Indians who will be impacted by the 
scheme(s), a large volume of grievances from various stakeholders i s quite likely. Anticipating a surge in the numbers of 
COVID-19 related complaints, the Government of India, through its centralized grievance redressal mechanism – the 
Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS; https://pgportal.gov.in/) has issued guidelines 
to all Ministries and Departments of the Government of India as well as State and UT Governments (on March 30 2020 38 
and March 31 202039 respectively; available on https://pgportal.gov.in/). The guidelines require the concerned entities to 
– (a) designate a Nodal Officer to handle COVID -19 related public grievances, (b) Publish the name, phone number and 
email ID of the designated Nodal Officer on the ministry’s / department’s website, (c) Ensure that the concerned entity’s 
website has a separate field in CPGRAMS to cater to COVID -19 grievances for more focused tracking, monitoring, and 
disposal of public grievances, (d) Considering the urgency and  importance of redressal of COVID -19 grievances, the 
concerned entity is to prioritize for expeditious quality addressal of COVID-19 related grievances at the earliest preferably 
within a timeline of 3 days, (e) Accord the highest priority to COVID 19 rela ted grievances, closely monitor redressal of 
COVID-19 related grievances and ensure that the most up to date status of grievance redressal is provided on their 
respective dashboards. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) through Order No. 40 -3/2020 -DM-I(A), dated March 29, 
202040 has also set up various empowered committees under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 to 
expeditiously address issues that will arise on account of the COVID -19 crisis. One such empowered committee, 
Empowered Committee – 10, has been constituted to deal with public grievances and suggestions concerning COVID-19. 
The empowered committee is multisectoral and comprise senior officials from different ministries of the Government of 
India.  
 
101. World Bank Grievance Redress. Communities and individuals who believe that they are adversely affected by 
specific country policies supported as prior actions or tranche release conditions under a World Bank Development Policy 
Operation may submit complaints to the responsible countr y authorities, appropriate local/national grievance redress 
mechanisms, or the WB’s Grievance Redress Service (GRS). The GRS ensures that complaints received are promptly 
reviewed in order to address pertinent concerns. Affected communities and individuals may submit their complaint to the 
WB’s independent Inspection Panel which determines whether harm occurred, or could occur, as a result of WB non -
compliance with its policies and procedures. Complaints may be submitted at any time after concerns have been brought 
directly to the World Bank's attention, and Bank Management has been given an opportunity to respond. For information 
on how to submit complaints to the World Bank’s corporate Grievance Redress Service (GRS), please visit 
http://www.worldbank.org/GRS.   For information on how to submit complaints to the World Bank Inspection Panel, 
please visit www.inspectionpanel.org. ” 
 
6. SUMMARY OF RISKS AND MITIGATION 
 
102. The overall risk rating of the proposed operation is “substantial” on account of substantial macroeconomic and 
 
38 File No.S-15/4/2020-DARPG (C.No.6594), Dated March 30, 2020 
39 File No: S-15/4/2020-DARPG (C.No.6594), Dated March 31, 2020 
40 https://dst.gov.in/sites/default/files/MHA%20Order%20Dt.%2029.3.2020%20on%20%20Disaster%20Management%20Act%202005.pdf 

--- PDF PAGE 48 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 45  
     
 
institutional capacity for implementation and sustainability. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding the extent of the 
impacts of the COVID -19 pandemic, and in a pessimistic scenario, the pandemic could destabilize the economy further 
and lead to increased mortality and morbidity. Nevertheless, despite the risk related to COVID-19, the proposed operation 
would likely achieve its objectives as it is designed to provide an economic lifeline to the vulnerable.  
103. The macroeconomic risk is assessed as being “substantial”. GDP growth has slowed in the past three years, from 
an average of 7.4 percent between FY16 and FY19 to an estimated 4.2 percent in  FY19/20. Against this backdrop of pre-
existing weakness, the outbreak of COVID-19 has significantly altered the growth trajectory of the economy, which is now 
projected to contract sharply in FY20/21, and to recover only gradually thereafter. As a result, financial sector weaknesses 
(high NPAs and impaired monetary policy transmission) are expected to remain significant, especially as moratorium 
measures are phased out. In addition, the fiscal deficit is expected to widen significantly in FY20/21, owing partly to higher 
spending needs and mostly to revenue shortfalls. Fiscal consolidation is expected to be delayed relative to pre -COVID 
targets. States are also facing significant fiscal stress owing to revenue shortfalls, delays in GST compensation, and limited 
options to expand borrowing beyond FRBM limits. Thus, there are non-negligible residual risks that fiscal constraints may 
affect program objectives (directly or indirectly), particularly at the state level. In a context of overall fiscal stress (w ith 
total social protection expenditures amounting to a non -negligible 13 percent of budgeted expenditures for FY20/21), 
risks are greater for development policy loans since resources are not ringfenced, than for investment loans for which 
funding is earmarked to specific uses. That being said, these risks are mitigated by the fact that the program  is a high 
priority for the administration and enjoys broad consensus across the political spectrum, and that the measures supported 
by the operation are core to the government’s integrated COVID response, which should help the economy sustain the 
immediate shock better and rebound faster in coming months.  
104. The institutional capacity for implementation and sustainability risk is substantial.  The COVID crisis brought 
home some of the strengths and weaknesses of India’s social protection. Strengths are e-payments, a near-universal food 
program as well as a large scale self-targeted employment guarantee program (MNREGA). Weaknesses are that programs 
cannot quickly enroll new individuals in need of benefits, and nor are benefits portable.  This risk is additionally hampered 
by fragmentation. There are over 465 Direct Benefit Transfer schemes which provide either cash or in-kind benefits. While 
the policies and guidelines of centrally sponsored schemes is developed by the Union government, actual implementation 
(targeting, identification, etc.) is the responsibility of the State governments and Union Territories. There is adequate 
capacity at th e Union government to guide and oversee Program implementation. The Public Financial Management 
System (PFMS) developed by the GOI is a fund tracking and expenditure filing system that can provide real time status of 
fund utilization and available funds. However, at the State level, the capacity to implement effectively varies, as there are 
capacity constraints which includes limitations of banking and financial service providers. Further, the nature of reforms 
will require a shift in organizational culture  - notably in terms of increased use of analytics and delegation of decision -
making – and coordination across Central Ministries, State Governments, Reserve Bank of India and Banking & Financial 
service providers. Within institutional risks, data privacy a nd ensuring data protection for citizens shall be of utmost 
importance (details are provided in paragraph 86). The Right to Information Act in India and existing IT acts provide 
protection and allow citizens to query how data was used, thereby serving as t ools to mitigate data privacy risks. The 
Program will address these risks through Technical Assistance which will provide support to the design, implementation, 
and monitoring and evaluation to the Union and State governments.  
  

--- PDF PAGE 49 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 46  
     
 
Table 7: Summary Risk Ratings 
    
 
 
Risk Categories Rating  
1.  Political and Governance ⚫ Moderate 
2.  Macroeconomic ⚫ Substantial 
3.  Sector Strategies and Policies ⚫ Moderate 
4.  Technical Design of Project or Program ⚫ Moderate 
5.  Institutional Capacity for Implementation and Sustainability ⚫ Substantial 
6.  Fiduciary ⚫ Low 
7.  Environment and Social ⚫ Low 
8.  Stakeholders ⚫ Moderate 
9.  Other ⚫ Low 
Overall ⚫ Substantial 
 
 
     
 
 
 . 

--- PDF PAGE 50 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 47  
     
 
 
ANNEX 1: POLICY AND RESULTS MATRIX 
 
   
Prior actions and Triggers Results 
Prior Actions Completed under DPF 1 Prior Actions for DPF 2 Indicator Name Baseline Target 
Pillar 1 – Leveraging Pre-existing Social Protection Measures for COVID-19 Relief 
Prior Action 1: The Borrower through Ministry of 
Finance, Government of India has approved the 
Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, an integrated 
COVID-19 social protection relief cash-transfer 
package which: (a) increases benefit levels for 
MGNREG; (b) allocates LPG and gas cylinders for 
below-poverty line households for three months 
through UJJWALA; (c) provides additional allowance 
for elderly, widows and disabled through the NSAP; 
(d) triggers cash transfers to women bank account 
holders under the PMJDY and (e) outlines benefit 
levels, implementation guidelines, fund-flow 
mechanism and governance rules for coordination 
and monitoring across multiple state governments 
and line ministries for roll-out of the PMGKY package. 
Prior Action 1: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Home Affairs, has expanded the 
ability of state governments to provide 
social protection during disasters through 
the use of up to 50 per cent of State 
Disaster Response Funds leveraging pre -
existing decentralized protocols for state 
governments to access financing to p rovide 
context-specific, adequate and agile safety 
nets.   
 
 
*The current NDMA does not contain any 
provisions for providing social protection in 
times of disasters. The reform aims to re-
orient the NDMA to include social security 
concerns in disaster management starting 
with COVID-19.  
Adequacy of benefits provided 
through the COVID-19 Social 
Protection Support Program measured 
by Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan 
Yojana (PMGKY) transfers as a percent 
share of total household consumption 
expenditures for the poorest quintile 
in India. 
 
 
 
Coverage of benefits provided through 
the COVID-19 Social Protection 
Support Program measured by share 
of bottom 40 % (consumption 
percentiles) households receiving at 
least one PMGKY social assistance 
(food/cash) benefit.  
 
 
 
0 (2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0 (2020)41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40% (2022) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  60% (2022) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 Zero implies that prior to the announcement of the PMGKY package, the poor and vulnerable groups were not receiving any additional entitlements to cope with COVID-19 
shocks.  

--- PDF PAGE 51 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 48  
     
 
Prior actions and Triggers Results 
Gender-sensitive program coverage 
measured by share of bottom 40% 
(consumption percentiles) households 
with female-head receiving at least 
one PMGKY social assistance 
(food/cash) benefit.  
 
 
0 (2020) 
    70% (2022) 
 
Prior Action 2: The Borrower  through Ministry of 
Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, 
Government of India  has approved the provision of 
free food rations for a three-month period delivered 
under PMGKAY’s public distribution system, 
outlining ben efit levels and implementation 
guidelines for delivery. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior Action 3 : The Borrower through Ministry of 
Labour and Employment, Government of India has 
amended the Employees’ Provident Fund 
Regulations to include pandemic as a reason to allow 
workers to withdraw from their Provident Fund 
account a non -refundable advance of 75% of the 
balance in the account or three months of the wages, 
whichever is lower. 
     
Prior Action 4: Under its PMGKY, the Borrower  
through Ministry of Labour and Employment, 
Government of India  contributes 24% of monthly 
wages for low -wage workers in small and medium 
    

--- PDF PAGE 52 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 49  
     
 
Prior actions and Triggers Results 
enterprises42 for a three months period into their 
Provident Fund account. 
 
                                              Pillar 2 – Protecting Workers in Essential Service Supply Chains during COVID-19 Pandemic 
Prior Action 5: The Borrower  through Ministry of 
Health and Family Welfare, Government of India has 
established a special health insurance scheme for 
health workers providing essential care/medical 
services to COVID -19 patients. 
 
(Included groups: Health professionals tackling 
COVID-19 cases, Safai karamcharis, ward-boys, 
nurses, ASHA workers, paramedics, technicians, 
doctors and specialists and other health workers 
would be covered) 
Prior Action 2: The Borrower through 
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India has extended a special 
health insurance scheme for health workers 
providing essential care/medical services to 
COVID-19 patients for additional 90 days . 
Access to health insurance 
measures provided through the 
COVID-19 Social Protection 
Program measured by per centage 
share of essential service workers 
covered by the Special Health 
Insurance Scheme. 
 
0 (2020) 
 
   15% (2022) 
Pillar 3 – Improving Access and Delivery for Vulnerable Populations 
Prior Action 6: The Borrower  through Ministry of 
Labour and Employment, Government of India  has 
issued advisories to all States’ government on how 
to use the Building and Other Construction (Workers 
Welfare Fund) to provide relief materials and cash 
to registered construction workers . 
 
Prior Action 3: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, has 
approved and adopted a new Social Security 
Code which includes the roll-out of a National 
Social Security Board (with online and offline 
interface) to ensure universal  coverage for a 
basic package of social protection benefits, 
leveraging the PDS, PMJDY, e-KYC, and 
Aadhar infrastructure; with focus on 
achieving full coverage of informal workers in 
urban and rural areas, and a clear approach 
Access to support provided through 
the COVID-19 Social Protection 
Program for informal workers 
measured by percentage share of 
informal workers receiving at least 
one social protection benefit.   
 
Gender-sensitive program coverage 
measured by proportion of female 
informal workers in total 
beneficiary pool of social protection 
10% (2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NA (2020) 
33% (2022) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40% (2022) 
 
42 Wage-earners below Rs15,000 per month in businesses having less than 100 employees. 

--- PDF PAGE 53 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 50  
     
 
Prior actions and Triggers Results 
for decentralized implementation. 
 
in India 
 
Prior Action 7: The Borrower through Ministry of 
Home Affairs, Government of India has enabled the 
States’ government to use finances from the State 
Disaster Response Funds to provide migrant 
workers relief materials and in -kind support, with 
flexibility for States in the modality of delivery.   
 
Prior Action 4:  The Borrower through 
Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and 
Public Distribution, Government of India has 
approved and adopted mission-mode roll-
out of ’One-Nation-One Ration’ platform for 
pan-national portable PDS access to support 
food rations for all migrants across state 
boundaries. 
 
Prior Action 5: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, has 
issued the Operational Guidelines dated July 
2020, for an Affordable Rental Housing 
scheme for migrant Labor and the urban 
poor which clearly defines rules and 
implementation norms 
 
Prior Action 6: The Borrower through 
Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of 
India has created a National Migrants 
Information System which establishes a 
database of inter-state mobility to target 
and plan migrant-specific COVID-19 social 
assistance support at the state and national 
level. 
 
Prior Action 7: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment , has: (i) 
expanded the definition of ‘inter -state’ 
Migrant-neutrality of India’s social 
protection system measured as the 
percentage of states implementing 
‘One-Nation-One-Ration’ for 
portable PDS access 
 
 
 
 
Percentage of India’s bottom 40 
percent quintile in urban areas 
covered by at least one social 
protection benefit.  
 
 
 
0 (2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  15% (2020) 
  
40% (2022) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   33% (2022) 

--- PDF PAGE 54 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 51  
     
 
Prior actions and Triggers Results 
migrants to include those who do not 
migrate without a contractor;  and (ii) 
mandated the creation of a decentralized 
portal for migrant registrat ion, to enable 
portability and universal coverage for cash 
and social insurance benefits, through  the 
Occupational Safety, Health and Working 
Conditions Code 2020  
 
Prior Action 8: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Rural Development, has 
established a converged mission-mode cash 
for employment-support program for 
returning migrants in rural areas called the 
Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan 
 
 
 
Prior Action 8: The Borrower through Ministry of 
Finance, Government of India has issued guidance 
largely adopted by public sector banks to waive ATM 
charges for all cash withdrawals to facilitate access 
to cash and PMGKY payments.  
 
  
 
Prior Action 9: The Borrower through Direct 
Benefits Transfer Mission, Cabinet 
Secretariat, has ordered the integration of 
DBT-related transaction in PFMS with 
UMANG mobile application, to allow 
beneficiaries of social programs to query and 
access information regarding electronic 
transfers. 
 
 
Timeliness of cash-transfers 
provided through the COVID-19 
Social Protection Program 
measured by percentage of bottom 
40 quintile households who have 
received at least one PMGKY 
benefit within eight-week period of 
program announcement.  
0 (2020) 50% (2021) 

--- PDF PAGE 55 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 52  
     
 
Prior actions and Triggers Results 
Pillar 4 – India Climate Action Pillar 
 Prior Action 10: The Borrower through the 
Ministry of Jal Shakti, has issued Revised 
Guidelines for Groundwater Extraction in 
India which (i) introduce the concept of 
Water Conservation Fee (WCF) (ii) encourage 
use of recycled and treated sewage water by 
industries (iii) create provision for actions 
against polluting industries (iv) mandate  
requirement of digital flow meters, 
piezometers and digital water level recorders 
(with or without telemetry depe nding upon 
quantum of extraction) (v) mandate water 
audit by industries abstracting ground water 
500 m3/day or more in safe and semi -critical 
and 200 m3/day or more in critical and over -
exploited assessment units and (vi) mandate 
roof top rain water harves ting except for 
specified industries.   
 
 
 
Improved regulatory capacity to 
conserve groundwater, thereby  
improving water security of the 
country in the face of climate 
change 
 
 No pre-
existing 
groundwater 
policy with 
water user 
fees (2020) 
 
Codification 
of 
groundwate
r policy with 
water user 
fees 
concept 
through 
government 
rules to 
state. 
(2022)  
 Prior Action 11 : The Borrower through the 
Ministry of Power, has extended the waiver 
of inter-state transmission charges and 
losses on the transmission of electricity 
generated by solar and wind sources to 
encourage use of renewable energy in India.  
 
Increase in the cumulative renewable 
power installed capacity in order to 
meet India’s NDC targets, retain 
India’s global position on wind and 
solar power and increase 
employment through renewable 
energy projects.  
 
85.90 GW (Dec 
2019) 
 
172 GW (Dec 
2022) 
 

--- PDF PAGE 56 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 53  
     
 
ANNEX 2: FUND RELATIONS ANNEX 
 
India—Assessment Letter for the World Bank  
October 13, 2020  
 
Recent Developments, Outlook, and Risks  
 
1. The growth outlook for India is weighed down by the sharp global and domestic slowdown and uncertainties from the COVID-19 pandemic. Growth 
contracted sharply (-23.9 percent year-on-year) in the first quarter (April to June 2020) of FY2020/21, reflecting the severe impact of the COVID-19 
pandemic and the ensuing lockdowns. The contraction in economic activity reflected weaknesses in industries and services, with construction, 
manufacturing, hotels, and transportation sectors suffering the most. In the October 2020 World Economic Outlook, growth is projected at -10.3 percent in 
FY2020/21 (April 2020-March 2021) and 8.8 percent in FY2021/22. Monetary and fiscal policies are expected to provide about two percentage points in 
support to growth this year and about one percentage point next year. The growth recovery is expected to be gradual given the continued COVID-19 
spread and sustained financial sector weakness, partly offset next year by the lower base and stronger global growth. Growth over the two years is 
projected at -2.4 percent. Headline inflation is projected to be 4.9 percent, reflecting higher food prices and COVID-19-related supply disruptions. At the 
same time, inflation dynamics are expected to improve over the coming quarters, given more favorable trends in food production, gradual improvement in 
supply chains, and base effects. the current account is projected to show a slight surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP in FY2020/21, due to weaker domestic 
demand. The near-term growth outlook in India continues to be clouded by uncertainties relating to the evolution of the coronavirus pandemic.  
2. The financial sector had already been under stress prior to the COVID-19 shock. Defaults by nonbank financial companies in late 2018 and 2019 
triggered a tightening of funding conditions in the sector, and the liquidity stress has spilled over to the rest of the financial sector. With banks still 
addressing the asset quality issues, credit growth slowed, especially to real estate developers and micro, medium and small enterprises, and remained 
weak following the onset of the pandemic. While policies including the loan moratorium and credit guarantees have provided temporary relief to 
corporates affected by the pandemic, asset quality pressures could emerge if the economic impact becomes protracted.  
3. Against the backdrop of the pandemic, the balance of risks is tilted to the downside. The main domestic risk is the continued spread of the pandemic 
as the health crisis has not yet been contained. Further outbreaks could require additional lockdowns, and could further disrupt the lives of many, 
especially the vulnerable, strain the health system, risk social tension, and adversely affect unemployment and growth. Concerns about the virus could also 
dampen consumer confidence and delay the economic recovery. In addition, corporate vulnerabilities could amplify the stress from the COVID-19 shock on 
the already strained financial sector, limiting credit provision, further delaying the recovery, and having deepening scarring effects from the prolonged 
recovery. External risks include intensified geopolitical tensions, a sharper-than-expected and more prolonged global slowdown, and large capital outflows 
that could amplify domestic financial sector stress and tighten external financing of corporates, creating a negative feedback loop.  
 
Policy Response and Settings  
 
4. In response to the pandemic, the government has announced substantial below-the-line fiscal measures and some direct spending measures. The 
below-the-line fiscal measures (about 5.2 percent of GDP) are mainly in the form of loan-guarantee programs to support businesses and farmers. The 
direct spending measures (about 1.8 percent of GDP) are mainly in-kind transfers and income-support/employment measures to support vulnerable 
households. These measures, together with significant downward pressure on revenues, are expected to widen the fiscal deficit substantially this fiscal 
year. Recent data showed the central government’s fiscal deficit rose to 4.6 percent of GDP in FY2019/20 (authorities’ definition) as compared to a revised 
budget estimate of 3.8 percent of GDP. The general government fiscal deficit is projected to widen to 13.1 percent of GDP in FY2020/21 from an estimated 
8.2 percent of GDP in FY2019/20.  
5. Given the unprecedented shock, the focus needs to remain on a coordinated policy response to fighting the virus, preventing long-term damage to 
productive capacity, and providing support to small and medium-sized firms and vulnerable households. Additional fiscal stimulus can and should be 
deployed as needed to support the poor and the vulnerable, accompanied by a credible medium-term fiscal consolidation plan that can reinforce market 
confidence and structural reforms that boost India's growth potential. Increased infrastructure spending can also play a useful role in supporting economic 
activity, particularly next year, while helping close infrastructure gaps and boosting India’s growth potential. India’s general government debt (around 70 
percent of GDP in FY2019/20) is high and likely to increase considerably this year and next.1 Over the medium term, while the growth-interest rate 
differential likely remains favorable, supporting debt sustainability, a comprehensive and credible consolidation plan with substantial new measures will 
be needed to put debt on a durable downward trajectory. While fiscal risks have increased as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, India’s public debt is 
denominated in domestic currency and predominantly held by residents, which contribute to a more favorable debt profile.  
6. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been on a monetary policy easing cycle since early 2019 to support a slowing economy. Since March 
27, 2020, the repo and reverse repo rates were reduced by 115 and 155 basis points (bps), respectively, to 4.0 and 3.35 percent, building on the 
pre-COVID easing of 135 bps, to further support the economy amid the COVID-19 shock. The RBI has maintained forward guidance of additional 
support if needed. Along with the easing of the policy rates and cash reserve requirement (by 100 bps), the RBI has introduced  
additional policy measures, such as long-term repo operations to support liquidity, and external benchmarking to reduce lending rates, along 
with dollar swaps for authorized dealers.  
7. Monetary policy should maintain an accommodative stance to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 and support the recovery, with scope for 
some policy rate easing when recent inflationary pressures recede. Financial sector stress prior to COVID-19 constrained monetary 
transmission and needs to be closely monitored. Despite measures to improve liquidity conditions, including through temporary and partial 
guarantees, funding pressures persist, with implications for the recovery once the shock dissipates. Exchange rate flexibility should continue to 
play the role as a shock absorber, while avoiding excessive volatilities.  

--- PDF PAGE 57 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 54  
     
 
8. The RBI has introduced several measures to ease the economic fallout of the pandemic on lenders and borrowers. The measures include delaying the 
implementation of the net stable funding ratio and the last phase of capital conservation buffer by six months (subsequently extended by another six 
months until April 2021) and confirming that countercyclical capital buffers are not activated. A moratorium was allowed until the end of August 2020 for 
all term loans for banks and nonbank financial companies, as well as interest deferral for working capital loans. More recently, the RBI announced a 
resolution framework for some corporate and personal loans and an extension of the restructuring scheme of loans to micro, small, and medium 
enterprises.  
9. The current macroprudential stance remains appropriate, given the negative credit gap, the ongoing stress in the nonbank financial corporation sector, 
and the expected economic slowdown. Weaknesses in bank balance sheets (especially at public sector banks but also smaller private banks) and some 
corporates (e.g., the power sector), and the impact of the expected economic slowdown on asset quality, are potential sources of risks.  
10. Capital flow and exchange rate pressures have moderated since April. After exceptionally large portfolio outflows in March, these flows have 
moderated since then, and are projected to regain momentum, led by FDI inflows in the remainder of the fiscal year. With weak domestic demand and 
relatively low oil prices, and thus a significant current account surplus in 2020Q2, foreign reserves reached a record high recently. The authorities have 
eased limits on foreign portfolio inflows, including a higher limit for foreign portfolio investment in corporate bonds and removal of restrictions on non-
resident investment in specified securities issued by the central government. They have not resorted to any major capital flow measures on outflows.  
11. A continued push for structural reforms is needed to achieve more inclusive and sustainable medium-term growth. The recently announced 
structural package—including reforms in the agriculture sector, labor market, mining sector, FDI regulations, ease of doing business, and privatization of 
non-strategic sectors—takes an important step in the structural reform agenda. Further, the parliament passed three agriculture bills and three labor bills 
in September 2020, marking a significant step in reforming the agriculture and labor markets. These measures will likely ease administrative bottlenecks, 
support formalization, expand social insurance, lay the path for a more efficient and integrated agriculture market, and support medium-term growth. 
Looking ahead, long-standing priorities include infrastructure investments, land reforms, and other labor reforms—such as increasing female labor force 
participation and access to finance to create more and better jobs. In addition, the public sector’s role in the financial system needs to be reduced to raise 
credit allocation efficiency.  
 
IMF Relations  
India is on a standard 12-month Article IV consultation cycle. The 2019 Article IV consultation was concluded by the IMF’s Executive Board on November 
25, 2019. 
 
 
 
  


--- PDF PAGE 58 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 55  
     
 
ANNEX 3: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY 
 
 
  


--- PDF PAGE 59 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 56  
     
 
ANNEX 4: ENVIRONMENT AND POVERTY/SOCIAL ANALYSIS  TABLE 
 
 
Prior Actions/Triggers Significant positive or negative 
environmental effects 
Significant poverty, social or 
distributional effect positive or 
negative 
Pillar 1 – Leveraging Pre-existing Social Protection Measures for COVID-19 relief 
Prior Action 1:  The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Home Affairs, has expanded the 
ability of state governments to provide 
social protection during disasters through 
the use of up to 50 per cent of State Disaster 
Response Funds leveraging pre -existing 
decentralized pro tocols for state 
governments to access financing to provide 
context-specific, adequate and agile safety 
nets.   
 
 
Positive 
 
This action will not only for 
more flexible localized 
approaches to support people 
affected during the COVID-19 
shutdown but also, the same 
flexibility will allow effective 
locally tailored responses to 
climate change induced local 
disasters such as floods, 
cyclones and coastal flooding. 
Positive 
 
Strengthening the ability of state 
governments to provide agile social 
protection assistance to target 
beneficiaries and incorporating 
community driven approaches to 
strengthen delivery of social 
protection assistance is likely to 
have a positive social impact .  
However, targeting the distribution 
of social protection assista nce and 
ensuring that there are no 
advertent or inadvertent 
exclusions is critical. It needs to be 
ensured that inclusion is at the core 
of the planning and delivery of such 
assistance. 
Pillar 2 – Protecting Workers in Essential Service Supply Chains during COVID-19 Pandemic 
Prior Action 2: The Borrower through 
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 
Government of India has ex tended a 
special health insurance scheme for 
health workers providing essential 
care/medical services to COVID -19 
patients for additional 90 days. 
 Positive.  
 
Public healthcare providers 
including community health 
workers, who may have to be in 
direct contact a nd care of COVID -
19 patients and who may be at risk 
of being impacted by this are 
covered under the Insurance 
scheme. 
Pillar 3 – Improving Access and Delivery for Vulnerable Populations  
Prior Action 3: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, has 
approved and adopted a new Social 
Security Code which includes the roll -out 
of a National Social Security Board (with 
online and offline interface) to ensure 
universal  coverage for a basic package of 
social protection benefits, leveraging the 
 Positive 
 
This action will address the missing 
middle in the Indian economy who 
neither have access to formal 
social insurance nor are they 
eligible for pensions for the poor.  
This includes most of the informal 

--- PDF PAGE 60 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 57  
     
 
PDS, PMJDY, e-KYC, and Aadhar 
infrastructure; with focus on achieving full 
coverage of informal worker, with focus on 
vulnerable urban populations and 
occupations, and a clear approach for 
decentralized implementation. 
 
sector including those in the Gig 
economy where India is 
experiencing the largest 
employment growth. This will also 
help migrant workers including 
rural to rural migrants. 
Prior Action 4: The Borrower 
through Ministry of Consumer Affairs, 
Food and Public Distribution, Government 
of India has approved and adopted 
mission-mode roll -out of ’One -Nation-
One Ration’ platform for pan -national 
portable PDS access to support food 
rations for all migrants across state 
boundaries. 
 
 Positive. 
A pan India portable PDS access is 
likely to help millions of people 
below the poverty line to access 
food rations easily across the 
country. The possibility of ration 
cards being duplicated and 
misused, and creation of black -
markets in food rations distributed 
through the PDS thereby distorting 
the intended distributional 
benefits of the scheme are two 
major risks that need to be 
factored into the scheme and 
monitored on a regular basis.  
Prior Action 5: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, has 
issued the Operational Guidelines dated 
July 2020, for an Affordable Rental Housing 
scheme for migrant Labor and the urban 
poor which clearly defines rules and 
implementation norms 
 
No significant environmental 
effect expected as no 
construction is expected. 
Positive 
The COVID lockdown also 
amplified the need for safe and 
upgraded shelter for informal 
urban workers in low income 
settlements. Their earnings do not 
allow to get better housing in 
these expensive metro areas—
thereby making the option of 
secure housing made available 
through the program an important 
instrument of social protection. 
 
An affordable rental housing 
scheme will benefit millions of 
urban poor (a large section of 
which includes migrant workers) 
through increased savings which 
can be put to other uses. 
However, the risk of elite capture 
and / or control of facilities 
created through these schemes, 
the affordable housing units being 

--- PDF PAGE 61 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 58  
     
 
used for purposes other than 
housing, inadvertent creation of a 
category of slum lords for these 
units, provision of adequate 
services (health, solid and liquid 
waste management, education / 
creches, etc., safety and security 
of women residing in the 
tenements created, etc.) are some 
of the risks that need to be 
factored in and mitigated through 
clear implementation guidelines. 
Prior Action 6: The Borrower through 
Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of 
India has created a National Migrants 
Information System which establishes a 
database of inter-state mobility to target 
and plan migrant-specific COVID-19 social 
assistance support at the state and national 
level. 
 Positive. 
The national migrants’ 
information system will enable 
easy identification of migrant 
workers needing social assistance 
support and delivery of the same. 
However, there the risks of data 
privacy, inadvertent inclusion and 
/ or exclusion of the most 
vulnerable, elite capture of 
benefits, etc. are high. The 
processes adopted towards 
creation of the NMIS need to 
factor in and address these risks.  
Prior Action 7: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment , has: 
(i) expanded the definition of ‘inter-state’ 
migrants to include those who migrate 
without a contractor;  and (ii) mandated 
the creation of a decentralized portal for 
migrant registration, to enable portability 
and universal coverage for cash and social 
insurance benefits, through  the 
Occupational Safety, Health and Working 
Conditions Code 2020 
 Positive.  
This recognition will allow the 
workers to assert their rights and 
also access benefits to which they 
are entitled. 
Prior Action 8: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Rural Development, has 
established a converged mission -mode 
cash for employment-support program for 
returning migrants in rural areas called the 
Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan 
 
 
 Positive 
The mission -mode employment 
support program for returning 
migrants will ensure that returning 
migrants are productively engaged 
and paid for work done in and 
around the respective villages in 
which they live. The risk of 

--- PDF PAGE 62 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 59  
     
 
exclusion of eligible returnee 
migrants on account of the political 
economy and other social 
dynamics of the places to which 
the migrant workers are returning 
to need to be analyzed and 
factored into the planning and 
delivery mechanisms of the 
schemes. 
Prior Action 9: The Borrower through 
Direct Benefits Transfer Mission, Cabinet 
Secretariat, has ordered the integration of 
DBT-related transaction in PFMS with 
UMANG mobile application, to allow 
beneficiaries of social programs to query 
and access information regarding 
electronic transfers. 
 Positive  
Experience from the first phase of 
the response showed many who 
had received benefits were 
unaware that the funds they 
needed were sitting in their Bank 
accounts. 
Prior Action 10: The Borrower through the 
Ministry of Jal Shakti, has issued Revis ed 
Guidelines for Groundwater Extraction in 
India which (i) introduce the concept of 
Water Conservation Fee (WCF) (ii) 
encourage use of recycled and treated 
sewage water by industries (iii) create 
provision for actions against polluting 
industries (iv) man date  requirement of 
digital flow meters, piezometers and 
digital water level recorders (with or 
without telemetry depending upon 
quantum of extraction) (v) mandate water 
audit by industries abstracting ground 
water 500 m3/day or more in safe and 
semi-critical and 200 m3/day or more in 
critical and over -exploited assessment 
units and (vi) mandate roof top rain water 
harvesting except for specified industries. 
Positive 
 
Creates regulatory regime for 
protecting groundwater 
 
Prior Action 11 : The Borrower through the 
Ministry of Power has extended the waiver 
of inter -state transmission charges and 
losses on the transmission of the 
electricity generated by solar and wind 
sources to encourage use of renewable 
energy in India. 
Positive 
 
Reduces carbon emissions 
 
 
  

--- PDF PAGE 63 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 60  
     
 
ANNEX 5: CLIMATE CO-BENEFITS 
 
Climate Change Vulnerability Context 
 
India has the largest rate of groundwater depletion in the world43. More than 600 million people in India are facing acute 
water shortages. Critical groundwater resources, which account for 40% of our water supply, are being depleted at 
unsustainable rates. Droughts are becoming more frequent, creating severe problems for India’s rain-dependent farmers 
(~53% of agriculture in India is rainfed). Increas ing water table decline and ensuing scarcity is now threatening food 
production and rural livelihoods. More than half of the agricultural sector depends on irrigation from wells, this further 
impact food security for the country. Where water is available, it is likely to be contaminated (up to 70% of India’s water 
supply), resulting in nearly 200,000 deaths each year 44. Increased temperatures and reduced precipitation accompanied 
by socio -economic factors like growing populations, increasing urbanization an d rapid economic development have 
translated into demand for water outstripping supply in many areas and into growing inter -sectoral competition for 
available water. Demand for water is projected to nearly double by 2050, rising in all sectors, particularly in the industrial 
and domestic sectors, placing pressure on agriculture.  
 
Industrial requirements and a perpetual building boom together with the urban transition put further stress on 
insufficiently managed groundwater resources. Freshwater scarcity is  pushing farmers to cities that are already facing 
enormous problems with water supply and sanitation services. Inefficient resource use also causes negative 
environmental impacts such as loss of arable land and biodiversity, declining groundwater tables a nd pollution of water 
resources. With about 25 million tube wells, groundwater economy uses about almost a quarter of the energy produced 
in the country, thus a key source of GHG emissions. More irregular and intense rainfall patterns are also altering the  
groundwater recharge potential. Considering the strategic importance of aquifers for storage, the regulation of India’s 
groundwater resources is badly in need of reform. Strengthening the institutional framework for groundwater 
management, especially in the context of climatic shifts, will increase water efficiency and enhance the use of this critical 
resource. This will create flow on impacts at water use points, such as agriculture improvements that then enhance food 
security. Such improvements will strengthen rural economies and play an important role in the post-pandemic economic 
recovery. 
 
India suffered an economic loss of USD 79.5 billion due to climate related disasters in the last 20 years. Disaster risk in 
India is also driven by its social vulner ability. India’s vulnerability ranking is driven by its high levels of socioeconomic 
deprivation. The adverse impacts of these disasters are severely felt by individuals and communities, mainly in the form 
of loss of life and livelihood. The extent of disr uption caused to the socioeconomic life of individuals depends on their 
existing vulnerabilities and the nature of their occupation. For instance, the impacts of 2019 cyclone Fani in Orissa were 
felt across various sectors and livelihoods amounting to USD 3.5 billion.  A huge number of crops, livestock and trees 
perished while the traditional fishing community was severely affected and with the damaged fishing harbors and landing 
centers, the fishermen were left with no alternate source of livelihood.  
 
Climate change impacts, including increased temperature, changing rainfall patterns, sea-level rise and desertification, are 
quickly becoming a significant driver of migration. These impacts are also being felt in Indian cities, alongside the stress of 
growing populations. Vulnerability of urban migrant workers is driven by weak family ties and social networks, livelihood 
insecurity, insecure housing, inadequate water and sanitation facilities, and ineffective social protection schemes. 
 
43 https://watergovernance.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/2013_No3_Groundwater_Governance_India.pdf 
44  Source: WHO Global Health Observatory 

--- PDF PAGE 64 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 61  
     
 
Adaptive social protection will be used to address the threats that climate change presents to migrant workers’ health in 
India. Adaptive social protection in India aligns itself with the countries climate risks by combining elements of social 
protection, disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation into programmes and projects. This is done to ensure 
programs effectively engage the resilience needs of the poorest and most vulnerable. 
 
Social protection is a crucial mechanism for providing safety nets to vulnerable populations through schemes and systemic 
interventions. The demand for the instruments of social protection becomes especially critical in the times of crisis like 
natural calamities, pandemics and climate-induced shocks. It is expected to continue across India due to climate change. 
Due to this fact these mechanisms for providing social security to vulnerable populations have been designed with a long-
term view to ensure they are long lasting and can meet future demands, climate change shocks. 
 
Table: Prior Action-wise Adaptation and Mitigation Climate Actions 
Prior Actions Adaptation Actions Mitigation Actions 
PA1: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Home Affairs, has 
expanded the ability of state 
governments to provide social 
protection during disasters 
through the use of up to 50 per 
cent of SDRF leveraging pre -
existing decentralized protocols 
for state governments to access 
financing to provide context -
specific, adequate and agile 
safety nets.    
Vulnerability Context: India spends over 2% of its 
GDP on its core safety net programs which have 
certainly improved the conditions of the 
beneficiaries but have not reached their full 
potential.  Social protection is a crucial 
mechanism for providing safety nets to 
vulnerable populat ions through schemes and 
systemic interventions. The demand for the 
instruments of social protection becomes 
especially critical in the times of crisis like natural 
calamities, pandemics and climate -induced 
shocks. 
 
Intent to address identified vulnerabili ties: The 
SDRF can now be used to provide staggered cash 
support during any disaster leveraging the same 
protocols. COVID-19 was notified as a ‘disaster’ in 
India –therefore India’s disaster management 
protocols now have a window for cash assistance 
to impacted households. This did not exist prior 
to the reform through PA1 as the focus was on 
physical infrastructure and rehabilitation. 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities: The use of the 
financing in the SDRF for state level scalable and 
adaptive social protection assistance (Prior 
Action 1 in DPO2) at the time of disasters and 
contingencies such as pandemics is an important 
step in building a more climate responsive social 
protection system in India. 
 
PA2: The Borrower through   

--- PDF PAGE 65 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 62  
     
 
Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare, Government of India 
has extended a special health 
insurance scheme for health 
workers providing essential 
care/medical services to COVID-
19 patients for additional 90 
days. 
PA3: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Labour and 
Employment, has approved and 
adopted a new Social Security 
Code which includes the roll-out 
of a National Social Security 
Board (with online and offline 
interface) to ensure 
universal  coverage for a basic 
package of social protection 
benefits, leveraging the PDS, 
PMJDY, e -KYC, and Aadhar 
infrastructure; with focus on 
achieving full coverage of 
informal workers in urban and 
rural areas, and a clear 
approach for decentralized 
implementation.  
Vulnerability Context : As m igrant workers have 
weak family ties and social networks, livelihood 
insecurity, insecure housing, inadequate water 
and sanitation facilities, and ineffective social 
protection schemes, they are increasingly more 
vulnerable to climate risks. As part of Ind ia’s 
effort to address this the country is aiming to 
achieve full coverage of informal workers to 
ensure these population can access social 
protection in times of disasters. 
 
Intent to address identified vulnerabilities:  The 
Code mandates the creation of an integrated 
database of informal workers for delivering 
benefits. This data infrastructure can be used to 
scale social assistance during any future crises. 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and spec ific project activities:  Measures 
directed towards approval and adoption of new 
Social Security Code will enhance community 
resilience in the long -term by creating a 
centralized database of vulnerable population 
with focus on achieving full coverage of inf ormal 
workers in urban and rural areas, which can be 
targeted in case of any future climatic or disaster 
event. 
 
PA4: The Borrower through 
Ministry of Consumer Affairs, 
Food and Public Distribution, 
Government of India has 
approved and adopted mission-
mode roll -out of ’One -Nation-
One Ration’ platform for pan -
national portable PDS access to 
support food rations for all 
migrants across state 
Vulnerability Context : Climate change creates a 
multitude of critical issues one of which is large -
scale human migration due to resource scarcity, 
increased frequency of extreme weather events, 
and other factors. This intensifies intra- and inter-
state competition for food, water, and other 
resources as that these resources are already 
under pressure from climate change and internal 
population growth, particularly for migrant 
workers. Low -income and other vulnerable 
 

--- PDF PAGE 66 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 63  
     
 
boundaries.  populations such as migrant labour are impacted 
most severely due to climate change. 
  
Intent to address identified vulnerabilities: The 
ONOR initiative is being tracked and measured by 
the Bank team’s M&E efforts and the aim is to 
inform implementation and design more disaster 
sensitive supply of food support and planning. 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities: The activities 
listed under this prior action will enhance food 
security of migrant workers and other vulnerable 
groups and provide resources to address their 
needs post any disaster event. Such reform in the 
food subsidy system will not only be beneficial to 
tackle food security concerns from the COVID-19 
crisis, but also puts in place a response capacity 
which can be rapidly scaled up to address the 
need of vulnerable g roups in any future shocks, 
including those from climate -related natural 
disasters. 
PA5: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Affairs, has issued the 
Operational Guidelines dated 
July 2020, for an Affordable 
Rental Housing scheme for 
migrant Labor and the urban 
poor which clearly defines rules 
and implementation norms.  
Vulnerability Context : Low -income and other 
vulnerable populations such as migrant labour 
are impacted most severely due to climate 
change. This is because these populations tend to 
live more frequently in the kinds of places that 
are most likely to be impacted by climate change 
and disaster events; for example, in low lying 
areas that are particularly susceptible to flooding.  
Moreover, low -income and other vulnerable 
populations are less likely than others to be able 
to quickly recover from disasters. 
 
Intent to address identified vulnerabilities: 
The issued operational guidelines for Affordable 
Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) ensures 
disaster-resilient construction of these new 
housing structures. Ministry of Housing and 
Urban Affairs (MoHUA) also has provisioned for 
an additional grant in the form of Technology 
Innovation Grant (TIG) to facilitate adoption of 
innovative, sustainable, eco -friendly and 
disaster-resilient technologies and building 
materials for construction of these houses. 
 

--- PDF PAGE 67 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 64  
     
 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities: This prior 
action will actively address the climate impacts of 
both existing and new affordable housing stock 
for migrant labour and the urban poor, hence 
building resilience by providing disaster -resilient 
and climate-friendly ARHCs. These reforms allow 
for a pathway for India’s social protection system 
to become portable and migrant frie ndly. 
Holistically, these reforms shall ensure migrants 
have access to food, cash and housing support in 
urban areas. 
PA6: The Borrower through 
Ministry of Home Affairs, 
Government of India has 
created a National Migrants 
Information System which 
establishes a database of inter -
state mobility to target and plan 
migrant-specific COVID -19 
social assistance support at the 
state and national level.  
Vulnerability Context: Climate change 
impacts, including increased temperature, 
changing rainfall patterns, sea-level rise 
and desertification, are quickly becoming a 
significant driver of migration. Low -income and 
other vulnerable populations such as migrant 
labour are impacted most severely due to climate 
change.   Education levels, skills training and job 
security all 
affect migrants’ vulnerability. 
 
Intent to address identified vulnerabilities: The 
database of inter -state mobility will facilitate, 
design and implement adaptive social protection 
strategies across the  cities. The database is 
expected to increase coverage of social 
protection amongst informal workers, 
particularly in urban areas without access to self-
targeting rural programs such as MGNREGS, 
UJJWALA, NSAP, etc. These database can be 
further used to dessiminate information climate 
change impacts an d how to prevent or prepare 
for them. The data will be maintained in 
anonymized form to adhere to personal data 
protection measures and safeguards in India. It 
has already been used to plan public works and 
recovery initiatives. The aim is to build a syste m 
using this database that can be used for future 
climate or disaster events. 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities: The 
 

--- PDF PAGE 68 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 65  
     
 
registration of migrant workers with National 
Migrants Information System will build climate 
change resilience and facilitate strict 
implementation and monitoring of the Inter -
State Migrant (ISM) Act. These reforms allow for 
a pathway for India’s social protection system to 
become portable an d migrant friendly. 
Holistically, these reforms shall ensure migrants 
have access to food, cash and housing support in 
urban areas. 
PA7: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Labour and 
Employment, has: (i) expanded 
the definition of ‘inter -state’ 
migrants to include those who 
do not migrate without a 
contractor;  and (ii) mandated 
the creation of a decentralized 
portal for migrant registration, 
to enable portability and 
universal coverage for cash and 
social insurance benefits, 
through  the Occupational 
Safety, Health and Working 
Conditions Code 2020  
Vulnerability Context: Climate change 
impacts, including increased temperature, 
changing rainfall patterns, sea-level rise 
and desertification, are quickly becoming a 
significant driver of migration. Low -income and 
other vulnerable populations such as migrant 
labour are impacted most severely due to climate 
change.  Education 
levels, skills training and job security all 
affect migrants’ vulnerability. 
 
Intent to address identified vulnerabilities:  
Decentralized portals will allow the government 
to trigger additional support to 
workers/communities in specific regions during a 
climate shock as it integrates an e -payments 
system. The portal provides details of already 
identified vulnerable popu lation (done through 
registration of migrants), which is portable and 
accessible across the country. Timely cash 
transfers by the government in case of a climatic 
or disaster shock will help these migrants not only 
for emergency relief, but also in the recovery and 
rebuilding phase. Therefore, building their 
resilience by helping them not become trapped in 
a cycle of poverty and reduce the exposure to 
future shocks.  
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities: These reforms 
allow for a pathway for India’s social protection 
system to become portable and migrant friendly. 
Holistically, these reforms shall ensure migrants 
have access to food, cash and housing support in 
urban areas.  
 

--- PDF PAGE 69 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 66  
     
 
PA8: The Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Rural Development, 
has established a converged 
mission-mode cash for 
employment-support program 
for returning migrants in rural 
areas called the Pradhan Mantri 
Garib Rozgar Abhiyan  
Vulnerability Context: Climate change impact on 
migration is th rough increases in the frequency 
and intensity of weather and climate risks. These 
climate-related risks can be sudden-onset events 
(e.g. tropical storms, heavy rains, floods and 
droughts) or slow-onset ones (e.g. sea-level rise, 
salinization and desertification). Migration in the 
context of climate change has multiple causes. 
The combination of climate -related risks with 
socioeconomic drivers increases the vulnerability 
of agriculture, leads to loss of livelihoods and 
triggers migration. 
 
Intent to address  identified vulnerabilities:  The 
cash-for work-programs contributes to improved 
natural resource management, including climate 
change adaptation outcomes, by generating 
employments in resilience -building public works 
including water conservation, watershed  
management, improvement of rural irrigation 
infrastructure, community disaster preparedness 
etc. 
 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities:  The 
adaptation strategies of migrant workers for 
climatic 
events and natural hazards are deeply embedded 
within those strategies that help them to deal 
with their day -to-day livelihood struggles. These 
strategies are often adjusted forms of 
adaptation. The activities defined under 
MGNREGS cash -for-work programs builds 
afforestation, water conservation and local 
irrigation assets. Therefore, increasing climate 
resilience of people employed and assets build. 
 
PA9: The Borrower through 
Direct B enefits Transfer 
Mission, Cabinet Secretariat, 
has ordered the integration of 
DBT-related transaction in 
PFMS with UMANG mobile 
application, to allow 
beneficiaries of social programs 
Vulnerability Context: The convergence of 
climatic risks with other socioeconomic stressors 
increase vulnerability of people and contributes 
to the loss of livelihoods. Social protection is a 
crucial mechanism for providing safety nets to 
vulnerable populations th rough schemes and 
systemic interventions. The demand for the 
instruments of social protection becomes 
 

--- PDF PAGE 70 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 67  
     
 
to query and access information 
regarding electronic transfers.  
especially critical in the times of crisis like natural 
calamities and pandemics. 
 
Intent to address identified vulnerabilities:  The 
use of mobile technology, together with disaster 
recovery protocols, ensure that the benefit 
transfer system is resilient and operational in the 
event of disruption from climate -related natural 
disasters. The same protocols, and lessons 
learned, from the integration of DBT -related 
transaction in PFMS with UMANG mobile 
application to allow beneficiaries of social 
programs to query and access information 
regarding electronic transfers can be transferred 
to improve benefit delivery standards and 
information campaigns during future  responses 
to climate-related shocks. 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities:  Activities 
defined under this prior action strengthens the 
climate resilience of social protection benefit 
transfers system throug h the use of mobile 
technology. 
PA10: The Borrower through 
the Ministry of Jal Shakti, has 
issued Revised Guidelines for 
Groundwater Extraction in India 
which (i) introduce the concept 
of Water Conservation Fee 
(WCF) (ii) encourage use of 
recycled and tr eated sewage 
water by industries (iii) create 
provision for actions against 
polluting industries (iv) 
mandate  requirement of digital 
flow meters, piezometers and 
digital water level recorders 
(with or without telemetry 
depending upon quantum of 
extraction) (v) mandate water 
audit by industries abstracting 
ground water 500 m3/day or 
more in safe and semi -critical 
and 200 m3/day or more in 
Vulnerability Context: India is more dependent on 
water pumped from aquifers than any other 
nation as it accounts for about a quarter of global 
demand for groundwater. About 80 percent of 
Indians depend on groundwater for both drinking 
and irrigati on. Increased variability in 
precipitation and more extreme weather events 
caused by climate change can lead to longer 
periods of droughts and floods, which directly 
affects availability and dependency on 
groundwater. In long periods of droughts there is 
a higher risk of depletion of aquifers, especially in 
case of small and shallow aquifers. Where water 
is available, it is likely to be contaminated (up to 
70% of India’s water supply), resulting in nearly 
200,000 deaths each year. Even in the 
diminishing nu mber of regions where 
groundwater supplies are still adequate for 
drinking and irrigation, most aquifers are 
contaminated. Three quarters of India’s 
groundwater supplies contain fluoride at levels in 
 

--- PDF PAGE 71 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 68  
     
 
critical and over -exploited 
assessment units and (vi) 
mandate roof top rain water 
harvesting except for specified 
industries.   
much higher concentrations than WHO safety 
limits. Aquif ers beneath 387 of India’s 676 
geographic regions also contain hazardous 
concentrations of one or more of these other 
contaminants – pesticides, arsenic, chromium, 
lead, cadmium, and nitrates. The management of 
groundwater resources has policy implications  
outside of the water sector, including agriculture 
and food security, energy, human health, and 
sustainable ecosystems.  
 
Intent to address identified vulnerabilities: As per 
the new groundwater conservation reform, all 
new or existing industries seeking expansion, 
infrastructure projects and mining projects will 
be required to seek No Objection Certificates to 
abstract groundwater, from the Central Ground 
Water Authori ty or the concerned state 
authority. Depending on the level ground water, 
the entire country has been categorized into 
over-exploited, critical and semi critical areas. It 
also stresses on the preparation of Water 
Management plans by state ground water 
authorities or organization of all over -exploited, 
critical and semi-critical assessment units. These 
plans are to be reviewed and updated 
periodically and to increase efficiency of these 
initiatives, groundwater abstraction charges are 
to be levied based on quantum of extraction by 
the industries, mining and infrastructure projects 
in safe, semi-critical and critical assessment units. 
The water Conservation Fee (WCF) reduces 
inefficient use of water in water-stressed regions 
and promotes water efficiency. All  industries 
shall be required to adopt latest water efficient 
technologies so as to reduce dependence 
on ground water resources. Industries which are 
likely to pollute ground water (chemical, 
pharmaceutical, dyes, pigments, paints, textiles, 
tannery, pesti cides/ insecticides, fertilizers, 
slaughter house, explosives 
etc.) are required to store the harvested rain 
water in surface storage tanks for use in the 
industry. Injection of treated/ untreated waste 
water into aquifer system is strictly prohibited 

--- PDF PAGE 72 ---
 
The World Bank  
Second Accelerating India's COVID-19 Social Protection Response (PMGKY) (P174027) 
 
 
  
 Page 69  
     
 
and industries which are likely to cause ground 
water pollution (as per CPCB list) need to 
undertake necessary well head protection 
measures to ensure prevention of ground water 
pollution. These measures will help increase 
water-use efficiency and reduce water  pollution 
for industries. 
 
Explicit link between identified climate change 
risks and specific project activities:  Deterring 
industrial activity in overexploited areas has the 
potential to replenish the aquifers, utilize the 
available groundwater for irrigation and 
domestic use and reduce groundwater 
contamination by industries. The revised 
guidelines for groundwater extraction in India 
enhance water availability by ensuring resources 
that would otherwise be polluted/unusable are 
available, most importantly in critical areas. This 
carries double benefits in the form of increased 
farm productivity and improved health of  water 
resources. 
PA11: The Borrower through 
the Ministry of Power has 
extended the waiver of inter -
state transmission charges and 
losses on the transmission of 
the electricity generated by 
solar and wind sources to 
encourage use of renewable 
energy in India.  
 
The government order from 
Ministry of Power waives off 
inter-state transmission charges 
and losses on transmission of the 
electricity generated from solar 
and wind sources of energy to 
facilitate energy transition to 
cleaner sources and accelerate 
decarbonization of electricity 
sector.  Waiving of interstate 
transmission charges and losses 
in the renewable energy sector 
will also reduce the financial 
hardships faced by the 
developers and widen the space 
for the creation of green jobs for 
unskilled w orkers and 
technicians. 
 
 