 NATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING for Setting up of Real Time Data Acquisition System, Hydro Modelling Flood Control Room at Ezhilagam and Flood Monitoring Centres for Water Resources Department Headquarters at Chepauk and four Collectorates (Two-Envelope Bidding Process with e-Procurement) INVITATION FOR BIDS (IFB) E-Procurement Notice Date : 18-07-2022 Loan No. : 84880- IN IFB No. : CRTFF / WRD / 01 / 2022 1. The Government of India has received/applied/ intends to apply for financing from the World Bank towards the cost of “ Planning, Setting up and Operationalizing a Real Time Flood Forecasting and Spatial Decision Support System for Adyar, Cooum, Kosasthalayar, Nagariyar, Nandhiyar and Kovalam Basins”, referred as Chennai Real Time Flood Forecasting & Spatial Decision Support System. It is intended that part of the proceeds will be applied to eligible payments under the contract for “ Setting up of Real Time Data Acquisition System, Hydro Modelling Flood Control Room at Ezhilagam and Flood Monitoring Centres for Water Resources Department Headquarters at Chepauk and four Collectorates”” 2. On behalf of the Governor of Tamil Nadu TheSuperintending Engineer, WRD, Groundwater Circle, Chennai-113 (Purchaser) now invites online bids from eligible Bidders for “ Setting up of Real Time Data Acquisition System, Hydro Modelling Flood Control Room at Ezhilagam and Flood Monitoring Centres for Water Resources Department Headquarters at Chepauk and four Collectorates”. 3. Bidding will be conducted through the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures agreed with World Bank. The bidding is open to all eligible Bidders as defined in the Bank’s Procurement Guidelines. In addition, please refer to paragraphs 1.6 and 1.7 of the Guidelines setting forth the World Bank’s policy on conflict of interest. 4. Bidding documents are available online on https://tntenders.gov.in for free. Bidders will be required to register in the website, which is free of cost. The Bidder would be responsible for ensuring that any addenda available on the website is also downloaded and incorporated. 1. Price of Bidding Document Free 2. Date and time of commencement of sale of Bidding Document 21-07-2022 10:00 AM 3. Date and Time of Pre bid meeting 04-08-2022 11:00 AM 4. Last Date and time for receipt of clarifications by Purchaser 08-08-2022 05:00 PM 5. Start date and time of Bid Submission 30-08-2022 10:00 AM 6. Last Date and Time for sale of Bidding Document 15-09-2022 02:00 PM 7. Last date and time for receipt of Bids 15-09-2022 03:00 PM 8. Date and Time of opening of Bids-technical part 15-09-2022 04:00 PM 5. For submission of the Bids, the Bidder is required to have Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) from one of the authorized Certifying Authorities, authorised by Government of India for issuing DSC. Aspiring Bidders who have not obtained the user ID and password for participating in e-procurement in this Project, may obtain the same from the website: https://tntenders.gov.in. 6. Bids must be submitted online on https://tntenders.gov.in on or before the date and time for receipt of bids, and the ‘Technical Part’ of Bids will be opened online on the specified time and date for opening of Bids, as given above. The “Financial Part” shall remain unopened in the e-procurement system until the second public Bid opening for the financial part. Any Bid or modifications to Bid (including discount) received outside e-procurement system will not be considered. If the office happens to be closed on the date of opening of the bids as specified, the bids will be opened on the next working day at the same time. The electronic bidding system would not allow any late submission of Bids. 7. Bids along with necessary enclosures must be uploaded to the web site https://tntenders.gov.in as per bid document and bids will be opened at the specified venue on the stipulated date and time, in the presence of the bidders or their authorized representatives who wish to attend. If the office happens to be closed on the date of opening of the bids as specified, the bids will be opened on the next working day at the same time and venue. 8. All bids must be accompanied by a (a) Bid-Securing Declaration, (b) Power of Attorney authorizing the signatory of the Bid and (c) Original Affidavit regarding correctness of information furnished with Bid Document, in approved form and shall be uploaded as scanned copy of the original document along with the Technical Part of the Bid. 9. Pre bid meeting will be held on 04-08-2022 at 11:00 AM at the Conference Hall, near the chambers of the Superintending Engineer, Water Resources Department, Ground Water Circle, CSIR Road, Taramani, Chennai, TamilNadu – 600113 to clarify the issues and to answer questions on any matter that may be raised at that stage in ITB on clause 7.1 of instructions to bidders of the bidding document. 10. Other details can be seen in the Bidding Document. The Purchaser shall not be held liable for any delays due to system failure beyond its control. Even though the system will attempt to notify the Bidders of any Bid updates, the Purchaser shall not be liable for any information not received by the Bidder. It is the Bidders’ responsibility to verify the website for the latest information related to this Bid. Seal of Office &Address The Superintending Engineer, Groundwater Circle, WRD CSIR Road, Taramani, Chennai- 600 113 Phone: +91-44 -22541591 Email: gwcchn@gmail.com 
