EXTRACT FROM RETAINED ORIGINAL. Page numbering is PDF page, not printed page.
--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
 
The World Bank  
Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program (P150395) 
 
 
  
 Page 1 of 54  
  
 
       
 
DATA SHEET 
 
 
BASIC INFORMATION 
 
Product Information 
Project ID Project Name 
P150395 Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Project 
Country Financing Instrument 
India Investment Project Financing 
Original EA Category Revised EA Category 
Full Assessment (A) Full Assessment (A) 
 
 
Organizations 
Borrower Implementing Agency 
India TNUDF 
 
Project Development Objective (PDO)  
Original PDO 
To improve urban services delivery in participating ULBs in a financially sustainable manner and to pilot improved 
urban managementpractices in selected cities. 
 
 

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
 
The World Bank  
Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program (P150395) 
 
 
  
 Page 2 of 54  
  
 
FINANCING 
 
 Original Amount (US$)  Revised Amount (US$) Actual Disbursed (US$) 
World Bank Financing    
 
IBRD-84880 400,000,000 352,729,993 352,729,993 
Total  400,000,000 352,729,993 352,729,993 
Non-World Bank Financing    
 0 0 0 
Borrower/Recipient 200,000,000 209,000,000 182,370,000 
Total 200,000,000 209,000,000 182,370,000 
Total Project Cost 600,000,000 561,729,993 535,099,993 
 
  
KEY DATES 
 
 
 
 
     Approval Effectiveness MTR Review Original Closing Actual Closing 
31-Mar-2015 21-Aug-2015 06-May-2019 31-Mar-2022 31-Mar-2023 
 
  
RESTRUCTURING AND/OR ADDITIONAL FINANCING 
 
 
Date(s) Amount Disbursed (US$M) Key Revisions 
30-Jun-2020 215.41 Change in Results Framework 
Change in Components and Cost 
Reallocation between Disbursement Categories 
Change in Legal Covenants 
Other Change(s) 
09-Jun-2021 260.72 Change in Components and Cost 
Reallocation between Disbursement Categories 
08-Feb-2022 290.82 Change in Loan Closing Date(s) 
 
 
KEY RATINGS 
 
 
Outcome Bank Performance M&E Quality 
Satisfactory Satisfactory Substantial 
 

--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
 
The World Bank  
Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program (P150395) 
 
 
  
 Page 20 of 54  
  
 
time and with high quality; and the usefulness of the M&E reports in the identification of implementation issues and 
their resolution. The RF was timely updated in  the 2020 restructuring; however, targets of a few IRIs, e.g., the one 
on GIS mapping, could have been recalibrated during the restructuring in 2021 and/or 2022. 
B. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND FIDUCIARY COMPLIANCE 
 
64. E&S safeguards. The project was classified as Environmental Assessment Category A (Full Assessment) and 
triggered two safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP  4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 
4.12). During project preparation, the borrower prepared an ESMF, which was reviewed, approved, and disclosed 
in-country in March 2015 before project appraisal and in the World Bank InfoShop. For the COVID-19 pandemic-
related restructuring, the ESMF was updated and redisclosed both in-country in September 2022 and on the World 
Bank’s external site. At closing, the rating for environmental safeguards was Satisfactory, while it was Moderately 
Satisfactory for social safeguards. 
65. Environmental safeguards policies were complied with.  The ESMF provided a framework for screening, 
assessing, and identifying the potential impacts of subprojects ; carrying out appropriate environmental 
assessments; and integrating mitigation measures in compliance with the operat ional safeguard policies of the 
World Bank. All subprojects were screened to identify the risks and impacts based on their locations and the types 
of activities. Safeguard documents , including Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) and 
Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMPs) , were prepared and implemented in line with the ESMF to 
manage the E&S risks of the investment subprojects and TA activities. In addition t o updating progress on 
environmental safeguards management in the Quarterly Progress Reports sent to the World Bank, independent 
annual E&S audits helped identify the gaps in safeguards management and paved the way for corrective actions. 
The project also adopted COVID -19 pandemic protocols for works and activities under execution, including 
sensitization and training of project staff, contractors, and workers on appropriate behaviors  in relation to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
66. Social safeguards policies were com plied with.  The SWD subproject in Chennai involved involuntary 
resettlement of 91 project-affected families (PAFs) in 2017. The project’s Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was 
followed, and a comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared and approved by the World Bank. GCC 
followed the RAP and resettled the 91 P roject Affected Families (PAFs) in two resettlement sites developed by the 
Tamil Nadu Housing and Urban Development Board (TNHUDB). The resettlement process was handled satisfactorily 
by GCC with regular consultations with the PAFs and intensive handholding support to help them integrate with the 
host communities. However, according to a policy of the GoTN, the PAFs would not be provided  the title deeds of 
their tenements until five years after the resettlement. Owing to the collective efforts of the GoTN, GCC, TNHUDB, 
TNUIFSL, and the W orld Bank, all but one of the ten PAFs resettled in the Perumbakkam resettlement site had 
received their title deeds by September 2022. In the Gudapakkam resettlement site, 76 of the 81 PAFs had received 
title deeds by June 2023, despite some complex land alienation issues. TNHUDB has also made available title deeds 
for the remaining PAFs to come forward and sign
19, and the World Bank continues to monitor this matter closely 
until it is resolved.  A few other subprojects had temporary adverse livelihood or economic impacts. These were 
managed by the ULBs and TNUIFSL using the ESMF and RPF, as well as subproject-specific ESIAs and ESMPs. 
67. A Grievance Redress Mechanism (GRM) w as established in each ULB as planned and w as accessible to PAFs 
through multiple channels including phones, websites , and ULB offices. Under the Chennai SWD subproject, 
petitions were received and duly responded to in October 2016. Additional complaints were received in March 2018 
regarding compensation for partially affected structures; subsequently, these were settled, and compensation was 
 
19 Issuance of title deeds are pending for the remaining five families due to legal heirs not being available on account of deaths in these 
families and they can come forward to take the title deeds from TNHUDB whenever they choose to do so. 

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
 
The World Bank  
Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Program (P150395) 
 
 
  
 Page 21 of 54  
  
 
paid. ULBs have reported that many complaints were related to the quality of construction and repairs of streets, 
which were made directly to the contractors and resolved at the contractors’ level. 
68. The ESMPs were designed and implemented to ensure timely action and compensation for two ‘severe’ 
incidents, whereby prompt remedial actions and compensations were ensured for the families of the victims. All 
incidents were investigated in line with World Bank procedures and registered in the Fatality Tracking System of the 
World Bank. All incidents have been closed except one that occurred in January 2023 , where compensation wa s 
offered by the contractor to the victim’s family, but the victim’s family has sought judicial resolution for determining 
the compensation amount; this process is currently underway and will be settled as per relevant procedures. 
69. Procurement. The World Bank procurement policies and procedures were followed in most transactions. Most 
of the contracts  under the urban investment component were awarded early on in the project , and TNUIFSL 
managed consultancies efficiently. However, procurements of many packages encountered delays, partly due to the 
lockdowns and disruptions during the COVID-19 pandemic. In almost all the investment packages, there was little 
or no participation by larger national /international construction firms, indicating possible barriers to entry. 
Procurement post reviews discovered many red flags , pointing to the lack of effective supervision being provided 
by TNUIFSL over procurement by other government agencies. The u se of e -procurement, which was a major risk 
mitigation measure, was also delayed significantly. Most of the contracts under the urban TA component  were 
awarded outside of the World Bank’s Systematic Tracking of Exchanges in Procurement tool and accordingly could 
not be covered in the procurement post review by the World Bank. At closing, the procurement rating was 
Moderately Satisfactory. 
70. FM. The World Bank FM policies and procedures were complied with. U naudited interim financial reports and 
audit reports with unqualified (clean) opinions were submitted on time before the COVID-19 pandemic, but their 
submission was delayed during the last two years due to delays in getting data from the ULBs and in completion of 
the audits. Adequate funds were released by the GoTN to the project mostly on time, except in the initial two years 
due to delay s in administrative sanctions. Accounting records were kept up  to date. FM staffing in DMA was not 
adequate, and qualified staff were not available during a major part of the project. In TNUIFSL, due to its growing 
portfolio, the existing staff handled the FM aspects of the project on a part-time basis. At closing, the FM rating was 
Moderately Satisfactory. 
 C. BANK PERFORMANCE 
 
Quality at Entry 
 
71. The World Bank task team processed the project from the Project Concept Note/identification to Board approval 
in 10 months, which was relatively short compared to the average processing time of 18 months for projects in India. 
The task team composition was appropriate for the design of the project, and included operational and technical 
specialists with experience in urban development projects in India ( see annex 2). The task team ensure that the 
objectives of the project were closely aligned  with the national agenda and the World Bank ’s India CPS. It 
incorporated lessons from other projects in India as well as from other countries in the project design. The task team 
conducted comprehensive institutional assessments of the ULBs on urban servi ces, governance, and finance; the 
findings of these assessments  informed the technical designs. The project allocated sufficient funding for TA  
activities, training, capacity building, and implementation support to the IAs and delivered trainings during project 
preparation on World Bank policies and requirements to address identified capacity risks. The M&E framework was 
effective, as discussed i n the M&E section. However, the broader regulatory environment  on municipal finances 
could have been more closely examined prior to the inclusion of the credit enhancement subcomponent in the 
project. The design of the GIS mapping activity overestimated the technical capacity of the DMA and the ULBs to 
carry out the work. 
