EXTRACT FROM RETAINED ORIGINAL. Page numbering is PDF page, not printed page.
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTSTHE WORLD BANK
1BRD - DA WORLDBANKGROUP
June 30. 2020
Mr. Sameer Kumar Khare
Additional Secretary
Department of Economic Affairs (DI A)
Ministry of Finance
Government of India
North Block
New Delhi I 10 001
Dear Mr. Khare:
Re: Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Project
Loan Number 8488-IN
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
We refer to the Loan Agreement between India ("Borrower") and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development ("World Bank") dated June 3, 2015 ("Loan Agreement"), the Project
Agreement between the World Bank and the State of Tamil Nadu ("Project Implementing Entity") ("Tamil
Nadu Project Agreement"), and the Project Agreement between the World Bank and the Tamil Nadu Urban
Development Fund ("TNUDF"). and Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Sorvices Limited
("TNUIFSI") (the latter two, collectively "Project Implementing Entities") ("TNUDF-1NUIFSL Project
Agreement"), of the same date, for the 'Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban )evelopment Proj e,ct ("Project").
We also refer to the letter from the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
F. No. 09/02/2014-Infra & Rural, dated March 11, 2020, requesting to remove sub-component B.2 from
the Project and reallocate the amount of the Loan allocated to said sub-component to other components of
the Project. This will require certain amendments to the Loan Agreement, the Tarm,il Nadu Project
Agreement, and the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Project Agreement, as well as changes to the Results Framework
for the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank concurs with the request, and accordingly the
Loan Agreement is amended as set forth below:
1 Parts 1.2 and B.3(b) of the Project set forth in Schedule I to the Loan Agrecment are deleted
and the remaining Part is renimbered accordin1gy.
2. Section IC of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is deleted and the follov ing Sections are
renumbered accordingly.
3. The table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is deleted and the
revised table is set forth in Annexure 1.
4. Section IV.B.5 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is deleted and the remtining Section is
renumbered accordingly,
 Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized


--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
Mr. Samecr Kunar Khare June 30. 2020
5. Section 1.31 of the Appendix to the Loan Agreement is amended by deleting the words
"including the credit enhancement facility under Part B.2".
6. Section 1.35 of the Appendix to the Loan Agrcement is deleted.
7. The Results Framework for the Project is revised accordingly and is set forth in Annexure 11.
Except as specifically amended in this letter, all other terms and conditions of thc Loan Agreement
shall remain in full force and effect.
The World Bank will disclose this amendment letter and related information in accordance with the
World Bank's Policy on Access to Information. By agreeing to this amendment letter. the Borrower consents
to disclosure of this amendment letter and related information.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing the form of confirmation set forth
below, and returning one fully executed original of this amendment letter to us and retaining one original
for your records. This amendment letter shall become effctive as of the date of the las. countersignature
of any of: (a) this amendment letter; (b) the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement amendment etter; and (c) the
TNUDF-TNUIFSL Project Agreement amendment letter, upon receipt by the World Bank of the duly
countersigned originals of all three amendment letters.
Yours sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEWVEFOP.M ENT
Junaid Kamal Ahmad
Country Director, India
AGREED:
INDIA
By:
Autloq*4*-8J t11J64eerKumar Kh3re, IAS
q -f4/Addl. Secretary
jw *m-cm/Ministry of Finance
Name- (me.rit of Econcoi Affairs
4szbR,l/Government of India
Title4 ftw/ New Dethi
Date: 0
Enclosures
Annexure I - Revised Withdrawal Schedule
Annexure II - Revised Results Framework


--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
Mr. Samecr Kumar Khare -3- June 30, 2020
Annexure I
Attachment to the World Bank's Letter dated June 30, 2020
Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Project
Loan No. 8488-IN
Revised Withdrawal Table
Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of 1* xpenditures to
Allocated be Financed
(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes)
1 1ligible Expenditure
Programs under Part A. of the 54,000,00 90?%Project (see annex below).
2. Credit enhancement faciity
under Part B.2 of the Project 0 90%
3. Sub Loans and Sub Grants
under Part B.] of the Project and
goods, consulting services, non-
consulting services, and 325,000.000 63%
Operating Costs under Part 13
of the Project.
4. Goods, works. non-consulting
services, and consultants
services, and Operating Costs for 20,000,000 63%
Parts A.2 and C of the Project.
Amount payable pursuant to
. Front-end Fee 1,000,000 Section 2 03 of his Agreement
in accordance w.th Section 2.07
(b) of the General Conditions
6. Interest Rate Cap or Interest Amount due pur:;uant to Section
Rate Collar premium 2.08 c) of this Agreement
TOTAL A.1IOUNT 400,000,000

