EXTRACT FROM RETAINED ORIGINAL. Page numbering is PDF page, not printed page.
--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
LOAN NUMBER 8488-IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 1, _ , __, 2015, between INDIA ("Borrower") and
INTERNATIONAL BANw FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank"). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE I - LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred million Dollars
($400,000,000) ("Loan"), to assist the project described in Schedule I to this
Agreement ("Project").
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter
of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance.
2.05. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.


--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
-2-
2.06. The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.
2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.08. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to: (A) all or
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or (B)
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b) Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
(c) Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall cause Parts A and C of the Project to be carried out by
Tamil Nadu and Part B of the Project to be carried out by Tamil Nadu together
with TNJDF and TNUIFSL in accordance with the provisions of Article V of


--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section 1. Implementation Arrangements
A. Funds Flow and Institutional Arrangements and Fund Flow Provisions
1. To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall make the proceeds
of the Loan available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any provision of this Agreement,
including the instructions that the Bank shall have specified by notice to the
Borrower pursuant to Section V.A.1 of this Schedule, were to be found
inconsistent with the Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to the States of India, the provisions of this Agreement and related
instructions shall govern.
2. The Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to make available the Loan proceeds to
TNUDF in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to Eligible
Urban Local Bodies, Participating Urban Local Bodies, Sub Borrowers, and Sub
Recipients in accordance with the DMA Operations Manual and the TNUDF-
TNUIFSL Operations Manual, as the case may be.
3. The Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to ensure that TNUIFSL is staffed and
operates with such resources, powers, functions, staffing, and expertise
acceptable to the Bank, as required to carry out the Project and shall cause Tamil
Nadu to exercise the general oversight of the implementation of Project activities.
4. The Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to ensure that TNUDF is adequately
capitalized to carry out the Project and that TNUDF observes the restrictions
imposed on it under paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Schedule to the TNUDF-
TNUIFSL Project Agreement.
5. The Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to ensure that DMA appoints a project
management unit to carry out Parts A and C of the Project with resources,
powers, functions, staffing, and expertise acceptable to the Bank.
6. The Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to ensure that each Eligible Urban Local
Body, each Participating Urban Local Body, each Sub Borrower and each Sub
Recipient constitutes and maintains a Project team with qualified sector, financial
management, procurement, environment, social, technical, and monitoring and
evaluation professionals to carry out their activities under the Project.


--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
-8-
7. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause Tamil Nadu to carry out its activities under the Project in
accordance with this Agreement, the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement, the
Project Implementation Plan, the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual,
the DMA Operations Manual, the Procurement Plan, the Environmental
and Social Management Framework, any Environmental Management
Plan(s) and any Resettlement Action Plan(s);
(b) cause Tamil Nadu to ensure that TNUDF, TNUIFSL, each Eligible
Urban Local Body, each Participating Urban Local Body, each Sub
Borrower and each Sub Recipient carry out their activities under the
Project in accordance with this Agreement, the Tamil Nadu Project
Agreement, the TNUDF-TNU[FSL Project Agreement, where
applicable, the Project Implementation Plan, the TNUDF-TNTJIFSL
Operations Manual, the DMA Operations Manual, the Procurement Plan,
the Environmental Management and Social Management Framework,
any Environmental Management Plan(s) and any Resettlement Action
Plan(s);
(c) cause Tamil Nadu to provide each Eligible Urban Local Body, each
Participating Urban Local Body, each Sub Borrower and each Sub
Recipient with financial and technical assistance necessary for the
implementation of Project activities; and
(d) cause Tamil Nadu to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
B. Sub Loans and Sub Grants under Part B.1 of the Project
The Borrower shall, through Tamil Nadu, cause TNUIFSL to make Sub Loans to
Sub Borrowers and Sub Grants to Sub Recipients for Sub Projects in accordance
with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set out in the
TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual and the provisions of the TNUDF-
TNUIFSL Project Agreement.
C. Credit Enhancements under Part B.2 of the Project
The Borrower shall cause Tamil Nadu to provide credit enhancements under Part
B.2 of the Project in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures
acceptable to the Bank and the provisions of the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Project
Agreement and the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual.

