EXTRACT FROM RETAINED ORIGINAL. Page numbering is PDF page, not printed page.
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8488-IN
TNUDF-TNUIFSL Project Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
and
TAMIL NADU URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED
Dated o3. ,2015
 Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized


--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
LOAN NUMBER 8488-IN
TNUDF-TNUIFSL PROJECT AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 4, , 3 , 2015, entered into between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund ("TNUDF'I, and Tamil Nadu
Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited ("TNUIFSL"). (the latter two,
collectively "Project Implementing Entities") ("TNUDF-TNUIFSL Project Agreement")
in connection with the Loan Agreement ("Loan Agreement") of same date between India
("Borrower") and the Bank. The Bank and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree
as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE II- PROJECT
2.01. TNUDF and TNUIFSL declare their commitment to the objectives of the Project.
To this end, TNUDF and TNUIFSL shall carry out their respective activities
under Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for their Respective Parts of the Project.
2.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
except as otherwise agreed, TNUDF and TNUIFSL shall carry out their
Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
3.01. TNUDF and TNUIFSL's Representative is the Chairperson and Managing
Director of TNUIFSL or any successor thereto.
3.02. The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America


--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
-4-
SCHEDULE
Execution of TNUDF and TNUIFSL's Respective Part of the Project
Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Overall Project Implementation
1. TNUDF and TNUIFSL shall operate with such resources, powers, functions,
staffing, and expertise, acceptable to the Bank, as are required to carry out the
Project.
2. TUNDF and TNUIFSL shall carry out the Project in accordance with this
Agreement, the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan,
the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual, the Procurement Plan, the
Procurement Manual, the Environmental Management and Social Management
Framework, any Environmental Management Plan(s) and any Resettlement
Action Plan(s).
3. TNUDF shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of TNUDF shows that the estimated net revenues of TNUDF for
each Fiscal Year beginning with 2015, shall be at least 1.0 time the estimated
debt service requirements of TNUDF in such year on all debt of TNUDF,
including the debt to be incurred.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3 above of this Section A:
(i) the term "debt" means any indebtedness of TNUDF maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) the sum of
revenues from all sources related to operations and net non-operating
income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: (A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; and (B)


--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
-5-
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the
generation of revenues in (A) above;
(v) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
repayments (including sinking fund payments and lease payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on debt;
(vi) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by TNUDF not
earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
question, which both the Bank and TNUDF, may accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified TNUDF of its acceptability,
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of TNUDF;
(vii) whenever for the purposes of this paragraph, it shall be necessary to
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
official rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
the Bank
(viii) the term "interest and other charges on debt" means and includes all
interest accrued on debt, excluding interest charges which are incurred in
financing capital expenditures during construction, if such charges are
capitalized, and any other charges payable on debt; and
(ix) the term "equity" means the sum of contributions, retained earnings and
reserves of TNUDF not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
B. Sub Loans and Sub Grants
1 . TNUDF and TNUIFSL, as the case may be, shall make Sub Loans to Sub
Borrowers and Sub Grants to Sub Recipients for Sub Projects in accordance with
eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set out in the
TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual.
2. TNUDF and TNUIEFSL, as the case may be, shall make each Sub Loan and Sub
Grant on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include rights
adequate to protect Tamil Nadu's, TNUDF's, and TNUIFSL's, as the case may
be, interests and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(a) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub Borrower or the Sub Recipient
to use the proceeds of the Sub Loan and Sub Grant, as the case may be,
or declare to be immediately due and payable all or any part of the

