
--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
LOAN NUMBER 8488-IN
TNUDF-TNUIFSL Project Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
and
TAMIL NADU URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED
Dated o3. ,2015
 Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized
Public Disclosure Authorized


--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
LOAN NUMBER 8488-IN
TNUDF-TNUIFSL PROJECT AGREEMENT
Agreement dated 4, , 3 , 2015, entered into between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund ("TNUDF'I, and Tamil Nadu
Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited ("TNUIFSL"). (the latter two,
collectively "Project Implementing Entities") ("TNUDF-TNUIFSL Project Agreement")
in connection with the Loan Agreement ("Loan Agreement") of same date between India
("Borrower") and the Bank. The Bank and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree
as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE II- PROJECT
2.01. TNUDF and TNUIFSL declare their commitment to the objectives of the Project.
To this end, TNUDF and TNUIFSL shall carry out their respective activities
under Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for their Respective Parts of the Project.
2.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
except as otherwise agreed, TNUDF and TNUIFSL shall carry out their
Respective Parts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
3.01. TNUDF and TNUIFSL's Representative is the Chairperson and Managing
Director of TNUIFSL or any successor thereto.
3.02. The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America


--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
-2-
Cable: Telex: Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD 248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C. 64145(MCI)
3.03. TNUTDF and TNUIFSL Address is:
No. 19, TP Scheme Road,
Raja Street Extension
Raja Annamalaipuram,
Chennai- 600 028
Telephone Facsimile:
04428153104/05 04428153106


--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
-3-
AGREED at , ),L , India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
By _
Authorized Representative
Name: . l JT . 61-- Ar.
Tite.le e- 12' 4- l
TAMIL NADU URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE
FINANCIAL -SERVICES LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative
Name: A-v PQv
Title: z 12 rl
C-Thu L\)


--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
-4-
SCHEDULE
Execution of TNUDF and TNUIFSL's Respective Part of the Project
Section I. Implementation Arrangements
A. Overall Project Implementation
1. TNUDF and TNUIFSL shall operate with such resources, powers, functions,
staffing, and expertise, acceptable to the Bank, as are required to carry out the
Project.
2. TUNDF and TNUIFSL shall carry out the Project in accordance with this
Agreement, the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan,
the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual, the Procurement Plan, the
Procurement Manual, the Environmental Management and Social Management
Framework, any Environmental Management Plan(s) and any Resettlement
Action Plan(s).
3. TNUDF shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of TNUDF shows that the estimated net revenues of TNUDF for
each Fiscal Year beginning with 2015, shall be at least 1.0 time the estimated
debt service requirements of TNUDF in such year on all debt of TNUDF,
including the debt to be incurred.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3 above of this Section A:
(i) the term "debt" means any indebtedness of TNUDF maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means the difference between: (A) the sum of
revenues from all sources related to operations and net non-operating
income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: (A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; and (B)


--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
-5-
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the
generation of revenues in (A) above;
(v) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
repayments (including sinking fund payments and lease payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on debt;
(vi) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by TNUDF not
earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
question, which both the Bank and TNUDF, may accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified TNUDF of its acceptability,
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of TNUDF;
(vii) whenever for the purposes of this paragraph, it shall be necessary to
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
official rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to
the Bank
(viii) the term "interest and other charges on debt" means and includes all
interest accrued on debt, excluding interest charges which are incurred in
financing capital expenditures during construction, if such charges are
capitalized, and any other charges payable on debt; and
(ix) the term "equity" means the sum of contributions, retained earnings and
reserves of TNUDF not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
B. Sub Loans and Sub Grants
1 . TNUDF and TNUIFSL, as the case may be, shall make Sub Loans to Sub
Borrowers and Sub Grants to Sub Recipients for Sub Projects in accordance with
eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank and set out in the
TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual.
2. TNUDF and TNUIEFSL, as the case may be, shall make each Sub Loan and Sub
Grant on terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include rights
adequate to protect Tamil Nadu's, TNUDF's, and TNUIFSL's, as the case may
be, interests and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(a) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub Borrower or the Sub Recipient
to use the proceeds of the Sub Loan and Sub Grant, as the case may be,
or declare to be immediately due and payable all or any part of the


--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
-6-
amount of the Sub-loan or Sub Grant then withdrawn, upon the Sub
Borrower's or Sub Recipient's failure to perform any of its obligations
under the legal agreement between TNUDF and TNUIFSL, as the case
may be, and such Sub Borrower or Sub Recipient; and
(b) require each Sub Borrower or Sub Recipient with respect to its Sub Loan
and Sub Grant, as the case may be, to:
(A) carry out its Sub Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, and, environmental and social standards and
practices satisfactory to the Bank, including in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;
(B) provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose;
(C) procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
Sub Loan or the Sub Grant in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement;
(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Bank, the progress of the Sub Project financed by the Sub Loan
or the Sub Grant, as the case may be, and the achievement of its
objectives;
(E) (1) maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the Sub Project; and (2) at the Bank's or the
Borrower's request, have such financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,
and promptly firnish the statements as so audited to the Bank;
(F) enable the Borrower and the Bank to inspect the Sub Project, its
operation and any relevant records and documents relating to the
Sub Loan or the Sub Grant, as the case may be; and
(G) prepare and furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing.


--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
-7-
3. TNUDF and TNUIFSL, as the case may be, shall exercise its rights under its
legal agreements with a Sub Borrower or the Sub Recipient in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TNUDF and
TNUIFSL shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any legal agreement with a
Sub Borrower or the Sub Recipient or any of its provisions.
C. Credit Enhancements under Part B.2 of the Project
1. TNUIFSL shall ensure that all credit enhancements under Part B.2 of the Project
are made in accordance with eligibility criteria and procedures acceptable to the
Bank and the provisions of the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual.
2. TNUIFSL shall ensure that all credit enhancement commitments or instruments
under Part B. 2 of the Project are issued only after TNUIFSL verifies that the
underlying bond or financial transactions have been processed in accordance with
the applicable requirements of the Environmental and Social Safeguards
Framework and the TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual.
3. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing paragraph 2:
(a) prior to providing credit enhancements for bond-issues that will finance
new projects or activities to be undertaken by Urban Local Bodies or
WSPF, TNUIFSL shall ensure that such projects or activities fully
comply with the Environmental and Social Management Framework, and
that the relevant Urban Local Body, WSPF, or other relevant agency has
prepared, adopted and disclosed, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
all required environmental management plan(s) and/or resettlement
.action plan(s). TNUIFSL shall ensure that each such environmental
management plan and/or resettlement action plan is implemented by the
relevant Urban Local Body or other relevant agency;
(b) prior to providing credit enhancements for bond-issues that will
refinance existing or completed projects or activities by Urban Local
Bodies or WSPF, TNUIFSL shall screen such projects and activities for
environmental and social issues. As part of such screening, TNUIFSL
shall:
(i) carry out due diligence, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to
identify and analyze any environmental or social legacy issues
arising from the design or implementation of such projects and
activities; and
(ii) cause the relevant Urban Local Body, WSPF, or other relevant
'agency to formulate, adopt and disclose, all in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, appropriate environmental, social,


--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
-8-
and/or resettlement plans or measures necessary to mitigate any
such legacy issues consistent with the principles and
requirements of the Environmental and Social Management
Framework and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) TNUIFSL shall ensure that each such environmental, social and/or
resettlement plans or measure is implemented by the relevant Urban
Local Body, WSPF, or other relevant agency.
4. Notwithstanding anything in paragraph 3(b) above, TNUIFSL shall refrain from
providing credit enhancements for bond issues that will refinance existing or
completed projects or activities with environmental and social legacy issues that
the Bank determines cannot be adequately addressed as required under paragraph
3(b) (ii) above.
5. TNUIFSL shall make each credit enhancement on terms and conditions approved
by the Bank, which shall include rights adequate to protect Tamil Nadu's and
TNUIFSL's interests and those of the Borrower and the Bank under the credit
enhancement 6r the underlying transactions as the case may be.
D. Safeguards
1. TNUDF and TNUIFSL, as the case may be, shall ensure that its activities under
the Project and those of the Urban Local Bodies, WSPF, the Sub Borrowers, and
the Sub Recipients are carried out in accordance with the Loan Agreement, this
Agreement, the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement, the TNUDF-TNUIFSL
Operations Manual, the Procurement Plan, and the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, including, where applicable, Environmental
Management Plan(s) and Resettlement Action Plan(s).
2. TNUDF and TNUIFSL, as the case may be, shall, with respect to Sub Projects
under Part B.1 of the Project:
(i) ensure that the relevant Sub Borrower or Sub Recipient has
developed Environmental Management Plan(s) and/or
Resettlement Action Plan(s) in accordance with the
Environmental and Social Management Framework for Sub
Projects under Part B.1 prior to the approval of bid documents
for these Sub Projects;
(ii) furnish such Environmental Management Plan(s) and/or
Resettlement Action Plan(s) to the Bank for review and
approval;
(iii) ensure that the relevant Sub Borrower or Sub Recipient has
adopted and publicly disclosed such Environmental Management


--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
-9-
Plan(s) and/or Resettlement Action Plan(s) in a manner
acceptable to the Bank; and
(iv) cause the Sub-Borrower, the Sub Recipient, or other appropriate
implementing agency to comply with all social and
environmental safeguard measures set forth in the Environmental
Management Plan(s) or the Resettlement Action Plan(s) to the
satisfaction of the Bank.
3. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TNUDF and TNUIFSL, as the case
may be, shall make no amendments, variations, or waivers to any provision of the
TNUDF-TNUIFSL Operations Manual, the Environmental and Social
Management Framework, including, where applicable, Environmental
Management Plan(s) and Resettlement Action Plan(s), relating to such
environmental and social standards, if, in the opinion of the Bank, such
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
4. TNUIFSL shall appoint and maintain adequate environmental and social
development staff at TNUIFSL and the Sub Borrowers or the Sub Recipients, as
the case maybe, with functions, powers, resources necessary to review and
monitor the environmental and social aspects of Sub Projects.
5. TNUJDF and TNUIFSL, as the case may be, shall ensure that the Sub Borrowers
and the Sub Recipients constitute and maintain grievance redress committees to
handle environment-related grievances under the Environmental Management
Plans and resettlement and compensation-related grievances under the
Resettlement Action Plans.
6. In accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, TNUDF and
TNUIFSL, as the case may be, shall undertake resettlement impact evaluation
studies no later than one calendar year after carrying out Resettlement Action
Plan(s) under each Sub Project. A copy of these impact evaluations shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the information required under 5.08 (c) of the
General Conditions.
E. Anti-Corruption
TNUDF and TNUlFSL, as the case may be, shall ensure that the Project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.


--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
-10-
Section II. Project Monitoring. Reportin2 and Evaluation.
A. Project Reports
1. TNUDF and TNUJIFSL shall prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part of
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Bank. Each such
Project Report shall cover the period of six months, and shall be furnished to the
Borrower, through Tanil Nadu, not later two weeks after the end of the period
covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Borrower to the
Bank of the overall Project Report.
2. TNUIFSL shall provide to the Borrower through Tamil Nadu not later than
September 30, 2022, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 5.08 (c)
of the General Conditions all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall
reasonably request for the purposes of that Section.
B. Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. TNUIFSL and TNUDF shall maintain a financial management system and
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the
operations, resources, and expenditures relating to its Respective Part of the
Project.
2. Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, TNUIFSL shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3. TNUIFSL and TNUDF shall have the Project's financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. Each audit of these financial
statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year. TNUDF and TNUIFSL
shall ensure that the audited financial statements for each period shall be: (a)
furnished to the Borrower and the Bank not later than nine months after the end
of the period; and (b) made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
Section III. Procurement
All goods, works and services required for TNUDF and TNUEFSL's Respective Parts of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.
