[PAGE 1]
Page 1 of 7 
 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India 
7th Floor, Mayur Bhawan, Connaught Place, New Delhi -110001 
15th November, 2019 
 
Subject: Judgment1 dated 15th November, 2019 of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Committee of Creditors of  Essar Steel 
India Limited Vs. Satish Kumar Gupta & Ors. [Civil Appeal No. 8766-67/2019 and other petitions]  
 
While setting aside the judgment dated 4 th July, 2019 of the NCLAT and upholding the constitutional validity of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code (Amendment) Act, 2019, the Hon’ble Supreme Court settled several issues and made important rulings as under: 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Issue/ Theme Rulings Para / 
Page No. 
1 Role of the 
Resolution 
Professional  
It is the responsibility of the resolution professional (RP) to (a) manage the affairs of the corporate debtor 
(CD) as a going concern during corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP), (b) appoint and convene 
meetings of the CoC, so that they may decide upon resolution plans , and (c) collect, collate and finally 
admit claims of all creditors, which must be examined for payment, in fu ll or in part or not at all, by the 
resolution applicant and be finally negotiated by the Committee of Creditors (CoC). The role of the RP is 
not adjudicatory but administrative. 
27/40 
 
 
 
2 Role of  the 
Prospective 
Resolution 
Applicant 
a. The prospective resolution applicant has a right to receive complete information as to the CD, debts 
owed by it, and its activities as a going concern, prior to the commencement of CIRP. I t has a right to 
receive information contained in the information memorandum as well as the evaluation matrix mentioned 
in Regulation 36B of the CIRP Regulations.  
 
b. The resolution plan submitted by the prospective resolution applicant must provide for measures as may 
be necessary for the insolvency resolution of the CD for maximisation of the value of its assets, which may 
include transfer or sale of assets or part thereof, whether subject to security interests or not. The plan may 
provide for either satisfaction or modification of an y security interest of a secured creditor and may also 
provide for reduction in the amount payable to different classes of creditors. 
 
29/45 
 
 
 
 
29/46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Prepared by the Legal Division for the sole purpose of creating awareness and must not be used as a guide for taking or recommending any action or decision, commercial or 
otherwise. One must do their own research or seek professional advice if they intends to take any action or decision using the material covered here.  

[PAGE 2]
Page 2 of 7 
 
c. The resolution plan must (a) provide that the amount due to operational creditors (OCs) shall be given 
priority in payment over FCs , (b) must include provisions as to how to deal with the interests of all 
stakeholders, including financial creditors (FCs) and OCs of the CD, (c) provide for the term of the plan, 
management and control of the b usiness of the CD during such term, and its implementation , and (d) 
demonstrate that it is feasible and viable, and that the resolution applicant has the capability to implement 
the said plan. 
30/46 
 
 
3 Role of CoC in 
CIRP 
a. It is the commercial wisdom of the CoC to decide as to whether or not to rehabilitate the CD by accepting 
a particular resolution plan. The rationale for only FCs handling the affairs of the CD and resolving them 
have been deliberated upon by the BLRC, which form ed the basis for the enactment of the Insolvency 
Code. 
 
b. The insolvency resolution is ultimately in the hands of the majority vote of the CoC . It may approve a 
resolution plan by a vote of not less than 66% of the voting share of the FCs, after considering its feasibility 
and viability, and various other requirements as may be prescribed by the Regulations. 
 
c. What is left to the majority decision of the CoC is the “feasibility and viability” of a resolution plan, 
which obviously takes into account all a spects of the plan, including the manner of distribution of funds 
among the various classes of creditors. 
 
d. It is the commercial wisdom of th e majority of creditors to determine, through negotiation with the 
prospective resolution applicant, as to how and in what manner the CIRP is to take place. 
31/48 
 
 
 
 
36/55 
 
 
 
40/59 
 
 
 
40/60 
4 Jurisdiction of the 
AA and NCLAT 
a. The limited judicial review available  to AA has to be within the four corners of section 30(2) of the 
Code. In respect of the NCLAT, it has to be within parameters of section 32 read with section 61(3) of the 
Code. Such review can in no circumstance trespass upon a business decision of the majority of the CoC. 
 
b. The residual jurisdiction of the NCLT under section 60(5)(c) cannot, in any  manner, whittle down 
section 31(1) of the Code, by the investment of some discretionary or equity jurisdiction in the AA outside 
section 30(2) of the Code, while adjudicating a resolution plan. 
 
c. There is no doubt whatsoever that the ultimate discretion of what to pay and how much to pay each class 
or subclass of creditors is with the CoC, but, the decision of such Committee must reflect the fact that it 
has taken into account maximising the value of the assets of the CD and the fact that it has adequate ly 
42/ 68 
 
 
 
43/69 
 
 
 
46/ 75 
 
 

[PAGE 3]
Page 3 of 7 
 
balanced the interests of all stakeholders including OCs. while the AA cannot interfere on merits with the 
commercial decision taken by the CoC, the limited judicial review available is to see that the CoC has 
taken into account the fact that the CD nee ds to keep going as a going concern during the insolvency 
resolution process; that it needs to maximise the value of its assets; and that the interests of all stakeholders 
including OCs has been taken care of. If the AA finds, on a given set of facts, that the aforesaid parameters 
have not been kept in view, it may send a resolution plan back to the CoC to re -submit such plan after 
satisfying the aforesaid parameters. The reasons given by the CoC while approving a resolution plan may 
thus be looked at by th e AA only from this point of view, and once it is satisfied that the CoC has paid 
attention to these key features, it must then pass the resolution plan, other things being equal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 Secured and 
Unsecured 
Creditors 
a. Protecting creditors in general is, no doubt, an important objective. Protecting creditors from each other 
is also important. 
 
b. If an “equality for all” approach recognising the rights of different classes of creditors as part of an 
insolvency resolution process is adopted, secured FCs will, in many cases, be incentivised to vote for 
liquidation rather than resolution, as they would have better rights if the CD is liquidated. This would 
defeat the objective of the Code which is resolution of distressed assets and only if the same is not possible, 
should liquidation follow. 
 
c. The amended Regulation 38 does not lead to the conclusion that FCs and OCs, or secured and unsecured 
creditors, must be paid the same amounts, percentage wise, under the resolution plan before it can pass 
muster. Fair and equitable dealing of OCs rights under the Regulation 38 involves the resolution plan 
stating as to how it has dealt with the interests of OCs, which is not the same thing as saying that they must 
be paid the same amount of their debt proportionately. So long as the provisions of the Code and the 
Regulations have been met, it is the commercial wisdom of the requisite majority of the CoC which is to 
negotiate and accept a resolution plan, which may  involve differential payment to different classes of 
creditors, together with negotiating with a prospective resolution applicant for better or different terms 
which may also involve differences in distribution of amounts between different classes of creditors. 
 
d. Quite clearly, secured and unsecured FCs are differentiated when it comes to amounts to be paid under 
a resolution plan, together with what dissenting secured or unsecured FCs are to be paid. And, most 
importantly, OCs are separately viewed from these secured and unsecured FCs in Sl. No. 5 of paragraph 7 
of statutory Form H of the CIRP Regulations. 
49/ 84 
 
 
54/ 89 
 
 
 
 
 
56/ 96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
57/ 98 
 
 
 

[PAGE 4]
Page 4 of 7 
 
 
e. The Code and the Regulations, read as a whole, together with the observations of expert bodies and the 
Supreme Court’s judgment, all lead to the conclusion that the equality principle cannot be stretched to 
treating unequals equally, as that will destroy the very objective of the Code - to resolve stressed assets. 
Equitable treatment is to be accorded to each creditor depending upon the class to which it belongs: secured 
or unsecured, financial or operational. 
 
f. There is a vital difference between the jurisdiction of the High Court under section 392 of the Companies 
Act, 1956 and the jurisdiction of the AA under the Code. The AA is to decide on whether a resolution plan 
passes muster under the Code and there is no residual jurisdiction not to approve a resolution plan on the 
ground that it is unfair or unjust to a class of creditors, so long as the interest of each class has been looked 
into and taken care of. 
 
57/ 99 
 
 
 
 
 
58/ 102 
6 The constitution 
of sub -committee 
by the CoC 
a. The powers of the CoC under section 28(1)(h) in respect of matters which have a vital bearing on the 
running of the business of the CD, though are administrative in nature, shall not be delegated to any other 
person. The CoC alone must take the decisions mentioned in section 28.  
 
b. The power to approve a resolution plan under section 30(4) cannot be delegated to any other body as it 
is the CoC alone that has been vested with this important business decision which it must take by itself. 
However, this does not mean that sub-committees cannot be appointed for the purpose of negotiating with 
resolution applicants, or for the purpose of performing other ministerial or administrative acts, provided 
such acts are ultimately approved and ratified by the CoC. 
62/ 106 
 
 
 
62/ 106 
 
 
7 Extinguishing of 
rights of creditors 
against guarantors  
a. Section 31(1) of the Code makes it clear that once a resolution plan is approved by the CoC , it shall be 
binding on all stakeholders, including guarantors. This provision ensures that the successful resolution 
applicant starts running the business of the CD on a fresh slate as it were. 
 
b. It is difficult to accept the argument that that part of the resolution plan which states that the claims of 
the guarantor on account of subrogation shall be extinguished, cannot be applied to the guarantees 
furnished by the erstwhile directors of the CD. The judgment of the NCLAT is contrary to section 31(1) 
of the Code and the Supreme Court’s judgement in State Bank of India Vs. V. Ramakrishnan. 
66/ 111 
 
 
 
66/ 112 
8 Claims a. A successful resolution applicant cannot suddenly be faced with “undecided” claims after the resolution 
plan submitted by him has been accepted as this would amount to a hydra head popping up which would 
throw into uncertainty amounts payable by the successful resolution applicant.  
67/ 112 
 
 

[PAGE 5]
Page 5 of 7 
 
 
b. All claims must be submitted to and decided by the resolution professional so that a prospective 
resolution applicant knows exactly what has to be paid in order that it may then take over and run the 
business of the CD.  
 
67/ 113 
9 Utilisation of 
profits of the CD 
during CIRP  
Distribution of profits made during the CIRP will not go towards payment of debts of any creditor. 68/ 113 
10 Constitutional 
validity of the 
Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code 
(Amendment) 
Act, 2019 
a. The legislature must be given free play in the joints when it comes to economic legislation. Apart from 
the presumption of constitutionality which arises in such cases, the legislative judgment in economic 
choices must be given a certain degree of deference by the courts. 
 
b. While it is true that it may well be that the law laid down by the NCLAT in this very case forms the 
basis for some of these amendments, it cannot be said that the legislature has directly set aside the 
judgment of the NCLAT. The Amendment Act cannot be struck down on the ground that it has been 
enacted only for curing the defect in the NCLAT order in the case of Essar Steel. 
69/114 
 
 
 
73/119 
11 Constitutional 
validity of 
amendment in 
section 12 of the 
Code. 
a. The reason for this amendment stems from the experience that has been plaguing the legislature ever 
since SICA was promulgated. Though SICA and other successor enactments  provided for expeditious 
determination and timely detection of sickness in industrial companies, yet, legal proceedings under the 
same dragged on for years as a result of which these statutory measures proved to be abject failures in 
resolving stressed assets. 
 
b. The speech of the Hon’ble Finance Minister in the Rajya Sabha also reflected the fact that with the 
passage of time the original intent of quick resolution of stressed assets is getting diluted. It is therefore 
essential to have time-bound decisions to reinstate this legislative intent.  The speech has been used as an 
aid not in order to construe the amended section 12, but to explain why the amendment was brought about. 
 
c. Time taken in legal proceedings cannot possibly harm a litigant if the Tribunal itself cannot take up the 
litigant’s case within the requisite period for no fault of the litigant, a provision which mandatorily requires 
the CIRP to end by a certain date - without any exception thereto - may well be an excessive interference 
with a litigant’s fundamental right to non-arbitrary treatment under Article 14 and therefore unreasonable 
restriction on a litigant’s fundamental right to carry on business under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution 
75/123 
 
 
 
 
 
76/126 
 
77/129 
 
 
79/131 
 
 
79/132 
 
 

[PAGE 6]
Page 6 of 7 
 
of India. However, the time taken in legal proceedings is certainly an important factor which causes delay, 
and which has made previous statutory experiments fail. 
 
d. While leaving the provision otherwise intact, the term “mandatorily” is struck down as being manifestly 
arbitrary under Article 14 of the Constitution of India and as being unreasonable restriction on the litigant’s 
right to carry on business under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. The effect of this declaration is that 
ordinarily the time taken in relation to the CIRP must be completed within the outer limit of 330 days from 
the insolvency commencement date, including extensions and the time taken in legal proceedings. If the 
delay or a large part thereof is attributable to the tardy process of the AA and/or the NCLAT itself, it may 
be open in such cases for the AA and/or NCLAT to extend time beyond 330 days. 
 
e. It is only in exceptional cases that time can be extended, the general rule being that 330 days is the outer 
limit within which resolution of the stressed assets of the CD must take place beyond which it is to be 
driven into liquidation. 
 
 
 
79/132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
79/133 
12 Constitutional 
validity of 
amendment in 
section 30 of the 
Code. 
a. Section 30(2)(b) is a beneficial provision in favour of OCs and dissentient FCs as they are now to be 
paid a certain minimum amount, the minimum in the case of OCs being the higher of the t wo figures 
calculated under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (b), and the minimum in the case of dissentient FC being 
a minimum amount that was not earlier payable. Prior to the amendment, secured FCs could cramdown 
unsecured FCs who are dissenting. But after the amendment, such FCs are now to be paid the minimum 
amount mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 30. 
 
b. The order of priority of payment of creditors mentioned in section 53 is not engrafted in sub -section 
(2)(b) as amended . Section 53 is only referred to in order that a certain minimum amount be paid to 
different classes of OCs and FCs.  
 
c. There is no residual equity jurisdiction in the AA or the NCLAT to interfere in the merits of a business 
decision taken by the requisite majority of the Co C, provided that it is otherwise in conformity with the 
provisions of the Code and the Regulations. 
 
d. An appellate proceeding is a continuation of an original proceeding. This being so, a change in law can 
always be applied to an original or appellate proceeding. For this reason also, Explanation 2  to Section 
80/133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
80/134 
 
 
 
81/135 
 
 
 
82/135 

[PAGE 7]
Page 7 of 7 
 
30(2)(b) of the Code is constitutionally valid, not having any retrospective operation so as to impair the 
vested rights. 
1. 13 The resolution 
plan of 
ArcelorMittal  
a. Ultimately it is the commercial wisdom of the requisite majority of the Co C that must prevail on the 
facts of any given case, which would include distribution of assets. It is, therefore, not possible that the 
AA and consequently, the NCLAT would be vested with the discretion that is vested in the CoC. 
 
b. The CoC does not act in any fiduciary capacity to any group of creditors. On the contrary, it is to take a 
business decision based upon ground realities by a majority, which then binds all stakeholders, including 
dissenting creditors.  
 
c. The NCLAT judgment which substitutes its wisdom for the commercial wisdom of the CoC and which 
also directs the admission of a number of claims which was done by the resolution applicant, without 
prejudice to its right to appeal against the aforesaid judgment, must therefore be set aside. 
 
d. The appeals filed by the CoC of Essar Steel Limited and other Civil Appeals are allowed. The impugned 
NCLAT judgment is set aside. The CIRP of the CD in the case will take place in accordance with the 
resolution plan of ArcelorMittal, as amended and accepted by the CoC, as it has provided for amounts to 
be paid to different classes of creditors by following section 30(2) and regulation 38 of the CIRP 
Regulations. 
91/156 
 
 
 
93/157 
 
 
 
94/158 
 
 
 
103/164 
 
 