[PAGE 1]
1
REPORTABLE
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION
WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO.546 OF 2020
CENTRE FOR PUBLIC 
INTEREST LITIGATION        ...PETITIONER(S)
VERSUS
UNION OF INDIA        ...RESPONDENT(S)
J U D G M E N T
ASHOK BHUSHAN, J.
From the beginning of this year, 2020, the world
including our country is in the grip of a pandemic
known  as  Novel  Coronavirus  (COVID-19).   On
31.12.2019,  a  cluster  of  cases  of  pneumonia  of
unknown cause in the city of Wuhan, Hubei Province in
China was reported to the World Health Organisation
(WHO).  This was subsequently identified as a new
virus in January, 2020 and over the following months,
the number of cases continued to rise but were not

[PAGE 2]
2
contained to China and showed exponential growth
worldwide.  Due to the global rise in cases, this was
declared a pandemic on 11.03.2020 by the WHO.  The
number of affected persons is increasing worldwide.
Although, substantial population is also recovering
from it but India witnessed exponential growth in
number of cases in the last month.  
2. The  world  is  familiar  with  several  kinds  of
disasters from time immemorial.  Every country has
faced  one  or  other  disaster  in  recent  memory.
Disasters disturb lives, societies and livelihood
around the world.  The impact of disaster is to
strike hard earned economy, development and material
gains.  Many of the destructive hazards are natural
in origin and some man made also.  The whole world
having faced adverse effect of different kinds of
disasters is now well aware of its ill effect and
steps internationally as well as nationally are being
taken for last several decades to combat different

[PAGE 3]
3
kinds  of  disasters.   U.N.  General  Assembly
recognizing the importance of reducing the impact of
natural disaster for all people including developing
countries designated 1990 as the international decade
of natural disaster reduction.  The International
Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction  (UNISDR)  was
established following IDNDR of the 1990s. The UN/GA
convened the second World Conference on Disaster Risk
Reduction (DRR) in Kobe, Hyogo, Japan 2005, which
concluded the review of the Yokohama Strategy and its
Plan  of  Action  and  the  adoption  of  the  Hyogo
Framework  for  Action  2005–2015:  Building  the
Resilience of Nations and Communities to Disasters
(HFA)  (UNISDR  2005)  by  168  countries.  The  HFA
outlined five priorities for action: 
“(1)Ensure that DRR is a national and a
local  priority  with  a  strong
institutional  basis  for
implementation; 
(2) Identify, assess, and monitor disaster
risks and enhance early warning; 

[PAGE 4]
4
(3) Use  knowledge,  innovation,  and
education to build a culture of safety
and resilience at all levels; 
(4) Reduce the underlying risk factors; 
(5) Strengthen disaster preparedness for
effective response at all levels.”
3. On 23.12.2005, both the Houses of Indian Parliament
passed a Disaster Management Bill.   The Introduction
and the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill
mentions: -
“INTRODUCTION
For prevention and mitigation effects
of  disasters  and  for  undertaking  a
holistic, coordinated and prompt response
to  any disaster  situation it  has been
decided by the Government to enact a law
on  disaster  management  to  provide  for
requisite  institutional  mechanisms  for
drawing  up  and  monitoring  the
implementation of the disaster management
plans, ensuring measures by various wings
of Government. To achieve this objective
the  Disaster  Management  Bill  was
introduced in the Parliament. 
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The Government have decided to enact a
law on disaster management to provide for
requisite  institutional  mechanisms  for
drawing  up  and  monitoring  the

[PAGE 5]
5
implementation of the disaster management
plans, ensuring measures by various wings
of  Government  for  prevention  and
mitigating effects of disasters and for
undertaking a holistic, coordinated and
prompt  response  to  any  disaster
situation.”
4. The Disaster Management Act, 2005 (hereinafter
referred to as “Act, 2005”) was enacted to provide
for the effective management of disasters and
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
The enactment of Disaster Management Act, 2005 was
to  bring  in  place  requisite  institutional
mechanisms  for  drawing  up  and  monitoring  the
implementation of the Disaster Management Plans
and  other  measures  by  various  wings  of  the
Government for preventing and mitigating effects
of  disasters.   We  shall  notice  the  relevant
provisions of the Act a little later. 
5. In accord with Disaster Management Act, 2005, Union
Cabinet  approved  a  “National  Policy  on  Disaster

[PAGE 6]
6
Management, 2009”.   Paragraph 1.1.1, 1.2.1 and 1.3.1
of the policy reads as under: -    
“1.1.1 Disasters  disrupt  progress  and
destroy  the  hard-earned  fruits  of
painstaking developmental efforts, often
pushing nations, in quest for progress,
back by several decades. Thus, efficient
management of disasters, rather than mere
response  to  their  occurrence,  has  in
recent times, received increased attention
both within India and abroad. This is as
much a result of the recognition of the
increasing  frequency  and  intensity  of
disasters,  as  it  is  an  acknowledgement
that  good  governance  in  a  caring  and
civilised  society,  needs  to  deal
effectively with the devastating impact of
disasters. 
1.2.1 India  is  vulnerable,  in  varying
degrees, to a large number of natural as
well as man-made disasters. 58.6 per cent
of the landmass is prone to earthquakes of
moderate to very high intensity; over 40
million hectares (12 per cent of land) is
prone to floods and river erosion; of the
7,516 km long coastline, close to 5,700 km
is prone to cyclones and tsunamis; 68 per
cent of the cultivable area is vulnerable
to drought and hilly areas are at risk
from  landslides  and  avalanches.
Vulnerability to disasters/emergencies of
Chemical,  Biological,  Radiological  and
Nuclear  (CBRN)  origin  also  exists.
Heightened  vulnerabilities  to  disaster
risks  can  be  related  to  expanding
population,  urbanisation  and
industrialisation,  development  within

[PAGE 7]
7
high-risk zones, environmental degradation
and climate change (Maps 1–4). 
1.3.1 On 23 December 2005, the Government
of India (GoI) took a defining step by
enacting  the  Disaster  Management  Act,
2005, (hereinafter referred to as the Act)
which  envisaged  the  creation  of  the
National  Disaster  Management  Authority
(NDMA),  headed  by  the  Prime  Minister,
State  Disaster  Management  Authorities
(SDMAs) headed by the Chief Ministers, and
District Disaster Management Authorities
(DDMAs) headed by the District Collector
or  District  Magistrate  or  Deputy
Commissioner  as  the  case  may  be,  to
spearhead  and  adopt  a  holistic  and
integrated approach to DM. There will be a
paradigm shift, from the erstwhile relief-
centric  response  to  a  proactive
prevention, mitigation and preparedness-
driven  approach  for  conserving
developmental gains and to minimise loss
of life, livelihood and property.”
The policy noticed institutional framework under
the Act, dealt with financial arrangement, disaster
prevention, mitigation and preparedness.  
6. Third  U.N.  World  Conference  on  Disaster  Risk
Reduction was held in March, 2015 at Sendai, Japan.
One of the declarations made in the conference was: -

[PAGE 8]
8
“We, the Heads of State and Government,
ministers and delegates participating in
the Third United Nations World Conference
on Disaster Risk Reduction, have gathered
from 14 to 18 March 2015 in Sendai City of
Miyagi  Prefecture  in  Japan,  which  has
demonstrated a vibrant recovery from the
Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011.
Recognizing  the  increasing  impact  of
disasters  and  their  complexity  in  many
parts  of  the  world,  we  declare  our
determination to enhance our efforts to
strengthen  disaster  risk  reduction  to
reduce disaster losses of lives and assets
from  disasters  worldwide.”  
7. The Sendai declaration dealing with priorities for
action emphasized following in paragraph 33(a):-
”33(a) To  prepare  or  review  and
periodically  update  disaster
preparedness  and  contingency
policies, plans and programmes with
the  involvement  of  the  relevant
institutions,  considering  climate
change scenarios and their impact
on disaster risk, and facilitating,
as appropriate, the participation
of  all  sectors  and  relevant
stakeholders;”
8. Although  Section  11  of  Act,  2005  contemplated
preparation of a National Plan, however, the National
Plan was not prepared till the year 2016 as was

[PAGE 9]
9
noticed by this Court in a judgment of this Court in
Swaraj Abhiyan Vs. Union of India & Ors., (2016) 7
SCC 498.   In the year 2016, National Disaster
Management Plan was prepared as required by Section
11 of the Act, 2005.  The preparation  of  the
National Plan under Section 11 was noticed by this
Court in Gaurav Kumar Bansal Vs. Union of India and
Ors., (2017) 6 SCC 730.   In the same judgment, this
Court noticed that State Plan under Section 23 of the
Act (except by two States) and District Plan have
also been prepared.  The preparation of National
Plan, State Plan and District Plan were noticed in
paragraphs 7, 11 and 12 of the above judgment, which
are to the following effect:-
“7. It was further pointed out that a
National Plan has been approved and placed
on the website of the NDMA in terms of
Section 11 of the Act and the guidelines
for  minimum  standards  of  relief  Under
Section  12  of  the  Act  have  also  been
placed on the website of the NDMA.
11. As far as the preparation of the State
Plan  Under  Section  23  of  the  Act  is
concerned, we have been informed by the
learned Counsel for NDMA that all States

[PAGE 10]
10
except Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have
prepared a State Disaster Management Plan
which is very much in place.
12. As far as the districts are concerned,
it is stated that the District Disaster
Management Authority has been constituted
in every district Under Section 25 of the
Act  and  out  of  684  districts  in  the
country, a District Disaster Management
Plan is in place in 615 districts while it
is  under  process  in  the  remaining
districts.”
9. The revision of the existing National Disaster
Management  Plan,  2016  began  in  April,  2017  and
completed in November, 2019. The National Disaster
Management  Plan  approved  by  National  Disaster
Management Authority was notified in November, 2019.
10. This writ petition filed as a public interest
litigation has been filed in the wake of Covid-19
pandemic, seeking direction to the Union of India to
prepare, notify and implement a National Plan under
Section 11 read with Section 10 of the Act, 2005 to
deal with current pandemic (Covid-19) and to lay down

[PAGE 11]
11
minimum standards of relief under Section 12 of the
Act, 2005 to be provided to persons affected with
COVID-19.   Petitioners  have  also  sought  for
directions to utilize National Disaster Response Fund
(NDRF) for the purposes of providing assistance in
the  fight  against  COVID-19  and  all  the
contributions/grants from individuals/institutions be
credited in NDRF and not to PM CARES Fund and all
funds collected in PM CARES Fund till date should be
directed to be transferred to NDRF.  It is useful to
note the specific prayers (a) to (c) made in the writ
petition: -
“a. Issue a writ, order or direction to
the Union of India to prepare, notify
and implement a National Plan under
Section 11 read with Section 10 of the
Disaster Management Act, 2005 to deal
with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic;
b. Issue a writ, order or direction to
the Union of India to lay down minimum
standards of relief, under Section 12
of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,
to be provided to persons affected by
the COVID-19 virus, as well as by the
resultant national lockdown; 

[PAGE 12]
12
c. Issue a writ, order or direction to
the Union of India to utilize NDRF for
the purpose of providing assistance in
the fight against GOVID-19 pandemic in
compliance with Section 46 of the DM
Act, all the contributions/grants from
individuals and institutions shall be
credited  to  the  NDRF  in  terms  of
Section 46(1)(b) rather than to PM
CARES Fund and all the fund collected
in the PM CARES Fund till date may be
directed  to  be  transferred  to  the
NDRF;”
11. We have heard Shri Dushyant Dave, learned senior
counsel for the petitioner.  Shri Kapil Sibal has
also made his submissions in support of the prayers
and  issues  raised  in  the  writ  petition  while
addressing his submissions in Suo Moto Writ Petition
No. 6 of 2020.  We have also heard Shri Tushar Mehta,
learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union of
India.  
12. Petitioner’s case in the writ petition is that
the National Plan uploaded on the website of National
Disaster Management Authority of the year 2019 does
not deal with situations arising out of the current

[PAGE 13]
13
pandemic  and  has  no  mention  of  measures  like
lockdown, containment zones, social distancing etc.
The Central Government has notified COVID-19 as a
“disaster” under Act, 2005 and has issued series of
notifications  to  contain  the  instant  pandemic.
Petitioner pleads that Centre need to prepare a well-
drawn National Plan to deal with instant pandemic and
the same need to be prepared after due consultation
with the State Government and experts.  Petitioner
further  pleads  that  Centre  should  come  up  with
detailed  guidelines  recommending  the  minimum
standards of relief to be provided in the relief
camps in relation to shelter, food, drinking water,
medical cover and sanitation, in absence of which,
shelter homes and relief camps are susceptible of
becoming  hotbeds  for  the  spread  of  COVID-19
infection.  Petitioner pleads that Centre should come
up with detailed guidelines under Section 12(ii) and
(iii)  of  the  Act,  2005  recommending  special
provisions to be made for widows and orphans and ex

[PAGE 14]
14
gratia to be provided to the kith and kin of those
losing life not just because of COVID-19 infection
but also due to harsh lockdown restrictions. 
13. The  petitioner’s  case  further  is  that  the
grants/contributions by individuals and institutions
should  be  credited  into  the  National  Disaster
Response Fund (NDRF) under Section 46 of the Act,
2005 and NDRF should be utilized for meeting the
ongoing COVID-19 crisis.  All the contributions made
by the individuals and institutions in relation to
COVID-19 are being credited into the PM CARES Fund
and not in NDRF, which is clear violation of Section
46 of the Act, 2005.  The NDRF is subject to CAG
Audit and PM CARES Fund is not subject to CAG Audit.
Petitioner’s case further is that the Centre may be
directed to utilize NDRF for the purpose of drawing
assistance to fight against COVID-19 and all the
contributions/grants  from  individuals  and
institutions be credited to the NDRF in terms of

[PAGE 15]
15
Section 46(1)(b) rather than to PM CARES Fund and all
the Fund Collected in the PM CARES Fund till date may
be directed to be transferred to the NDRF.
14. A preliminary counter affidavit has been filed on
behalf  of  the  Union  of  India.  In  the  counter
affidavit, the respondents have questioned the locus
of  the  petitioner  to  file  this  public  interest
litigation.   Counter  affidavit  questions  as  to
whether there can be a permanent body set up only to
file  litigation  on  issues,  which  the  said  body
subjectively considers to be of “public interest”.
Counter  affidavit  pleads  that  National  Disaster
Management Plan as per Section 11 is already in place
and relevant portion of National Disaster Management
Plan – November, 2019 has been annexed as Annexure R-
1 to the counter affidavit.  Counter affidavit pleads
that Act, 2005 provides for a broad framework in
terms of the response to be provided in pursuance to
a National Plan in case of any disaster.  Counter
affidavit pleads that National Plan does not and

[PAGE 16]
16
cannot contain step by step instructions or specific
instructions  for  the  day  to  day  management  by
Government  agencies  in  the  situation  of  any
particular and unforeseen disaster. National Plan is
not a document that contains the microscopic details
as to the day to day management of the issues arising
out  of  different  disasters.  National  Disaster
Management Authority has issued various orders from
time  to  time  to  take  effective  measures  found
required at the relevant point of time to contain the
spread of COVID-19 in the country.  The Chairperson
of National Executive Committee has issued several
guidelines from time to time.  National Disaster
Management  Authority  has,  in  order  to  create
preparedness with regard to any contingent biological
disaster,  has  framed  the  “National  Disaster
Management  Guidelines  Management  of  Biological
Disasters”.  National Disaster Management Authority
has  framed  broad  template  for  State  level  and
District level for contingency plan for COVID-19.

[PAGE 17]
17
The Nodal Ministry, i.e., Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare has issued a “Cluster Containment Plan
for  COVID-19”  on  02.03.2020,  which  was  further
updated on 16.05.2020.  Further instructions  have
been issued from time to time including the guidance
documents.  The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
has approved the India COVID-19 Emergency Response
and Health Systems Preparedness Package of Rs.15000
crores,  which  seeks  to  support  States/Union
Territories in various aspects of management of the
COVID Pandemic and provides support for establishment
of COVID dedicated facilities for treatment of COVID-
19 cases including for critical care, enhancement in
testing  capacities,  engagement  and  training  of
necessary  human  resources  and  procurement  of
essential  equipment  and  protective  gear  for  the
health care personnel engaged in COVID-19 duties etc.
With regard to minimum standards of relief, the
counter affidavit refers and relies on guidelines on
Minimum Standards of Relief under Section 12, which

[PAGE 18]
18
has been brought on record as Annexure R-7.  The
Counter affidavit also outlines various steps taken
by Health Ministry as well as the Government of
India.  
15. Replying  the  averments  in  the  writ  petition
regarding  PM  CARES  Fund  and  NDRF,  the  counter
affidavit pleads that there are several funds which
are either established earlier or now for carrying
out various relief works.  PM CARES Fund is one of
such  funds  with  voluntary  donations.   Affidavit
further states that there exist a NDRF which would
not prohibit creation of a different fund like PM
CARES fund which provides for voluntary donations.
The  directions  prayed  in  the  writ  petition  for
transfer of funds received in PM CARES Fund in the
NDRF are non-maintainable.  
16. Shri  Dushyant  Dave,  learned  senior  counsel
appearing  for  the  petitioner  referring  to  the
pleadings of the petitioner made in the writ petition

[PAGE 19]
19
contends  that  Centre  was  obliged  to  prepare  a
National Plan for Disaster Management specifically
for  COVID-19.  Shri Dave  does not  dispute that
National Plan under Section 11 has been framed in
November, 2019 but he submits that said Plan is
neither  comprehensive  nor  covers  management  of
pandemic, i.e., COVID-19.  Shri Dave submits that
power given in a Statute is to be exercised in the
same manner.  Shri Dave further submits that there is
a serious problem in implementing the National Plan,
2019.  Shri Dave has taken us to certain portion of
Plan of November, 2019, which has been filed as
Annexure – P-2 to the writ petition.  Shri Dave
submits  that  only  paragraph  7.15  deals  with
biological and public health emergencies but Plan
does not contemplate giving any financial relief.
Shri Dave submits that unless there is a National
Plan for COVID-19, effective measures cannot be taken
to contain COVID-19.  Referring to Section 46 of the
Act, 2005, Shri Dave submits that NDRF having been

[PAGE 20]
20
constituted by Central Government, all amount given
by individuals and organisations for disaster should
have been credited in NDRF.  He submits that PM CARES
Fund should not have been constituted when NDRF is
already in place to take care of disasters.  Shri
Dave submits that there is no provision in 2019 Plan
to give fund to NDRF.  Referring to Operational
Guidelines for Constitution and Administration of the
National Disaster Response Fund at page 129 of the
writ petition, Shri Dave submits that paragraph 5.5
provides that contribution made by the persons or
institutions for the purpose of disaster management
to be credited in the NDRF, which clause 5.5 has been
omitted in the subsequent Operational Guidelines for
Constitution  and  Administration  of  the  National
Disaster Response Fund filed at page 154, which is
recent guidelines.  By deletion of clause 5.5 now
contribution by any person or institution for the
purpose of disaster management to the NDRF is not
permissible.  Shri Dave submits that petitioners have

[PAGE 21]
21
no reason to doubt the bonafide of PM CARES Fund but
by  creating  PM  CARES  Fund  the  NDRF  is  being
circumvented.  What cannot be done directly cannot be
done indirectly.  Although, NDRF is audited by CAG,
the  PM  CARES  Fund  is  audited  by  only  private
auditors.    
17. Shri  Tushar  Mehta,  learned  Solicitor  General
refuting the submissions of the counsel for the
petitioners submits that reliefs (i) and (ii) made in
the  writ  petition  has  become  infructuous  since
National Plan has already been prepared under Section
11,  which  has  been  referred  to  in  the  counter
affidavit  and  relevant  extract  of  the  Plan  has
already been brought on record as Annexure R-1 along
with counter affidavit.  He submits that insofar as
the guidelines for minimum standards of reliefs are
concerned, there are guidelines in existence, which
has been brought on record by the counter affidavit,
which covers all disasters including COVID-19.  Shri

[PAGE 22]
22
Mehta submits that Plan – November, 2019 along with
the powers given in the Act, 2005 contains several
measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 and no
separate National Plan is required for COVID-19.
18. Shri  Tushar  Mehta  submits  that  a  National
Disaster Response Fund has been created as stipulated
under Section 46 of Act, 2005, which consist of fund
in the form of budgetary provisions made by the
Central  Government  in  National  Disaster  Response
Fund. He submits that the existence of National
Disaster Response Fund, which is a statutory fund,
neither prevents creation of any public charitable
trust receiving voluntary donation nor can remotely
mean that the amount received in all such voluntary
funds should go in the statutory fund created under
Section 46. National Disaster Response Fund and PM
CARES Fund being distinct and separate, there is no
occasion for any direction to transfer the amount of
PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund.

[PAGE 23]
23
19. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties
and perused the record. Applications for intervention
are rejected.
20. The  respondent  in  its  affidavit  has  raised
contention/objection regarding the locus standi of
the petitioner.  It is, inter alia, contended that
there cannot be a permanent body existing only for
filing public interest litigations.  Shri Tushar
Mehta, learned Solicitor General, however, pointed
out that at the outset, in the facts of the present
case, he would rather like to assist the Hon’ble
court on merits and requested that the question of
locus standi of the petitioner which, according to
him is a very serious question, be left open to be
raised and decided in other proceedings.  We have,
therefore, heard the parties on merits, keeping the
aforesaid question open, to be heard and decided in
an appropriate proceeding.

[PAGE 24]
24
21. From the submissions of the learned counsel for
the parties and the pleadings on record, following
questions  arise  for  consideration  in  this  writ
petition: -
I) Whether the Union of India under Section 11 of
Act, 2005, is obliged to prepare, notify and
implement a National Disaster Management Plan
specifically  for  pandemic  COVID-19
irrespective of National Disaster Management
Plan notified in November, 2019?
II) Whether the Union of India is obliged to lay
down the minimum standards of relief under
Section  12  of  Act,  2005,  for  COVID-19
irrespective  of  earlier  guidelines  issued
under Section 12 of the Act, 2005 laying down
the minimum standards of relief?
III) Whether Union of India is obliged to utilise
National Disaster Response Fund created under

[PAGE 25]
25
Section 46 of the Act for the purpose of
providing assistance in the fight of COVID-19?
IV) Whether  all  the  contributions/grants  from
individuals  and  institutions  should  be
credited to the NDRF in terms of Section 46(1)
(b) of the Act rather than to PM CARES Fund?
V) Whether all the funds collected in the PM CARES
Fund till date be directed to be transferred to
the NDRF?
QUESTION NO.I
I) Whether the Union of India under Section 11 of
Act, 2005, is obliged to prepare, notify and
implement a National Disaster Management Plan
specifically for pandemic COVID-19 irrespective
of National Disaster Management Plan notified in
November, 2019?
22. The Act, 2005, has been enacted for the effective
management of Disasters and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto. Section 3 of the
Act  constitutes  National  Disaster  Management
Authority with the Prime Minister of India as the

[PAGE 26]
26
Chairperson, ex-officio. Section 6 enumerates the
powers and functions of National Authority. As per
Section  6  sub-Section  (2)(b),  National  Disaster
Management Authority (hereinafter referred to as
National Authority) is to approve the National Plan.
Under  Section  7,  the  National  Authority  may
constitute  an  advisory  Committee  consisting  of
experts in the field of Disaster Management to make
recommendations on different aspects of Disaster
Management. Under Section 8, the Central Government
is to constitute a National Executive Committee to
assist the National Authority in the performance of
its functions under the Act. Section 11 of the Act
deals with National Plan, which provision is to the
following effect: -
   “ 11. National Plan –(1) There shall be
drawn up a plan for disaster management
for the whole of the country to be called
the National Plan. 
(2)  The  National  Plan  shall  be
prepared  by  the  National  Executive
Committee having regard to the National
Policy and in consultation with the State
Governments  and  expert  bodies  or

[PAGE 27]
27
organizations  in  the  field  of  disaster
management to be approved by the National
Authority.
(3) The National Plan shall include – 
(a) measures to be taken for
the prevention of disasters,
or  the  mitigation  of  their
effects;
(b) measures to be taken for
the integration of mitigation
measures  in  the  development
plans;
 
(c) measures to be taken for
preparedness  and  capacity
building  to  effectively
respond  to  any  threatening
disaster  situations  or
disaster; 
(d) roles and responsibilities
of  different  Ministries  or
Departments of the Government
of  India  in  respect  of
measures specified in clauses
(a), (b) and (c). 
(4)  The  National  Plan  shall  be
reviewed and updated annually.
(5) Appropriate provisions shall be
made  by  the  Central  Government  for
financing the measures to be carried out
under the National Plan. 
(6)  Copies  of  the  National  Plan
referred to in sub-sections (2) and (4)
shall be made available to the Ministries
or Departments of the Government of India

[PAGE 28]
28
and such Ministries or Departments shall
draw up their own plans in accordance with
National Plan.” 
   
23. As noted above, the first National Plan under
Section 11 was framed in the year 2016, which was
revised and the National Plan was prepared and
notified in November, 2019. Extract of National
Disaster Management Plan of November, 2019 has been
brought  on  record  both  by  the  petitioner  as
Annexure-P2 to the writ petition as well as by the
respondent as Annexure-R1 to the preliminary counter
affidavit.
24. We may notice certain relevant portions of the
Plan, 2019 to answer the question which is up for
consideration.  The  Plan,  2019  under  heading
‘Executive Summary’ states: -
“...The National Disaster Management
Plan  (NDMP)  provides  a  framework  and
direction to the government agencies for
all phases of disaster management cycle.
The NDMP is a “dynamic document” in the
sense  that  it  will  be  periodically
improved  keeping  up  with  the  emerging
global best practices and knowledge base

[PAGE 29]
29
in  disaster  management.  It  is  in
accordance with the provisions of the DM
Act,  2005,  the  guidance  given  in  the
National  Policy  on  Disaster  Management
(NPDM) 2009, and the established national
practices...”
25. In the Executive summary itself, while noticing
the changes introduced, the Plan states that new
sections have been added relating to several hazards
including  “Biological  and  Public  Health
Emergencies”. The Plan, 2019 provides a framework
and directions to the Government Agencies for all
phases of Disaster Management. The Plan is a dynamic
document in the sense that it was to be periodically
improved, keeping up with the best practices and
knowledge based in Disaster Management. The Plan
provides  a  framework  covering  all  aspects  of
Disaster  Management.  It  covers  Disaster  Risk
Reduction,  mitigation,  preparedness,  response,
recovery and building back better. It recognizes
that effective Disaster Management necessitates a
comprehensive  framework  encompassing  multiple

[PAGE 30]
30
hazards. Paragraph 1.4 of the Plan under the heading
‘Legal Mandate’ states: -
“1.4. Legal Mandate
Section 11 of the DM Act 2005 mandates
that there shall be a National Disaster
Management Plan (NDMP) for the whole of
India. The NDMP complies with the National
Policy on Disaster Management (NPDM) of
2009 and conforms to the provisions of the
DM Act making it mandatory for the various
central ministries and departments to have
adequate DM plans. While the NDMP will
pertain to the disaster management for the
whole of the country, the hazard-specific
nodal ministries and departments notified
by the Government of India will prepare
detailed DM plans specific to the disaster
assigned. As per Section 37 of the DM Act,
every  ministry  and  department  of  the
Government of India, be it hazard-specific
nodal  ministries  or  not,  shall  prepare
comprehensive DM plans detailing how each
of them will contribute to the national
efforts  in  the  domains  of  disaster
prevention,  preparedness,  response,  and
recovery. 
As per the mandate of the DM Act, the
NDMP  assigns  specific  and  general
responsibilities  to  all  ministries  and
departments for disaster management. The
DM  Act  enjoins  the  NDMP  to  assign
necessary  responsibilities  to  various
ministries to support and implement the
plan. Therefore, it is incumbent on all
ministries to accept all the implicit and
explicit responsibilities mentioned in the

[PAGE 31]
31
NDMP even if they are beyond what are
explicitly mentioned in the normal rules
of business. Disaster management requires
assumption of responsibilities beyond the
normal  functioning.  The  NDMP  will  be
complemented  by  separate  contingency
plans, SOPs, manuals, and guidelines at
all levels of the multi-tiered governance
system.”
26. The above part of the Plan categorically states
that  the  Plan  will  be  complemented  by  several
contingency  plans,  Standard  Operating  Procedures
(SOPs), Manuals and Guidelines at all levels of the
multi-tiered governance system. Paragraph 1.13 deals
with  ‘types  of  Disasters’.  Paragraph  1.13.1,
‘Natural Hazards’ have been enumerated in five major
categories. Sub-category (5) is to the following
effect:-
“1.13.1 Natural Hazards
1)...
5)Biological Process or phenomenon
or  organic  origin  or  conveyed  by
biological vectors, including exposure
to pathogenic micro-organisms, toxins
and bioactive substances that may cause
loss of life, injury, illness or other
health impacts, property damage, loss
of livelihoods and services, social and

[PAGE 32]
32
economic  disruption  or  environmental
damage.”
27. Under Table 1-1, ‘Categories of Natural Hazards’
have been detailed. Item (5) of the Table 1-1 is to
the following effect: -
 “Table 1-1: Categories of Natural Hazards
Family Main
Event
Short
Description/
Secondary
Disaster
1 Geophysical
2 Hydrological 
3 Meteorological
4 Climatological
5 Biological Exposure  to
germs  and
toxic
substances
 Epidemics:
Viral,
bacterial
parasitic,
fungal, or
prion
infections
 Insect
infestatio
ns
 Animal
stampedes
28. Table  1-3,  provides  for  ‘Nodal  Ministry  for
Management/Mitigation of Different Disasters’ with
regard to Biological Emergencies, Nodal Ministry is

[PAGE 33]
33
notified  as  Ministry  of  Health  and  Family
Welfare(MoHFW). Under paragraph 2.2.3.3, Biological
and Public Health Emergencies have been dealt with.  
The First paragraph of the above is as follows:-
“...Disasters  related  to  this  sub-
group  are  biological  emergencies  and
epidemics, pest attacks, cattle epidemics
and food poisoning. Biological emergency
is one caused due to natural outbreaks of
epidemics or intentional use of biological
agents  (viruses  and  microorganisms)  or
toxins  through  dissemination  of  such
agents in ways to harm human population,
food  crops  and  livestock  to  cause
outbreaks  of  diseases.  This  may  happen
through natural, accidental, or deliberate
dispersal  of  such  harmful  agents  into
food, water, air, soil or into plants,
crops,  or  livestock.  Apart  from  the
natural  transnational  movement  of  the
pathogenic organisms, their potential use
as  weapons  of  biological  warfare  and
bioterrorism has become far more important
now than ever before. Along with nuclear
and  chemical  agents,  many  biological
agents are now considered as capable of
causing  large-scale  mortality  and
morbidity...”
29. Paragraphs 6 and 7 deals with “Building Disaster
Resilience - Responsibility Framework, Part A and B”.
Dealing with Biological and Public Health Emergencies

[PAGE 34]
34
in paragraph 7.15, following are the sub-heads under
the paragraph: -
“7.15  Biological  and  Public  Health
Emergencies (BPHE) 
7.15.1 Understanding Risk
7.15.2 Inter-Agency Coordination
7.15.3 Investing  in  DRR–Structural
Measures
7.15.4 Investing in DRR- Non-structural
Measures
7.15.5 Capacity Development
7.15.6 Climate Change Risk Management”
30. A  detailed  chart  has  been  prepared  under
paragraph 7.15 in five parts and it shall be useful
to notice the only first portion of paragraph 7.15.1,
item 1, which is to the following effect: -
“7.15.1 Understanding Risk
Biological & Public Health Emergencies (BPHE) 
Sub-Thematic
Area for DRR
Central/State Agencies and their Responsibilities
Centre# Responsibility
- Centre
State# Responsibility
-State

[PAGE 35]
35
1.
Observation
Networks,
Information
Systems,
Monitoring,
Research,
Forecasting,
Early  Warning
and
Zoning/Mapping
MHFW*
(NCDC),
MAFW,  MHA,
MOD,  MOES,
MOEFCC, MOR,
MLBE, MEITY,
NDMA
Recurring/
Regular(RR)
 Support  for
training
 Extend
technical
support
Medium Term(T2)
 Establishment
of  Early
Warning System
 Strengthening
IDSP and early
warning systems
at  regional
levels
 Epidemiological
disease mapping
 Health
facilities
mapping
HFWD*,
DMD$,
SDMA, RD,
DRD, UDD,
DWSD,
EDD,  PD,
EFD, AHD,
WCD,
PRI/ULB,
SLRTI,
DDMA
Recurring/
Regular(RR)
Maintaining
preventive
measures  as  per
norms
Short Term(T1)
Strengthening
integrated  health
surveillance
systems
Medium Term(T2)
 Establishing and
maintain
community-based
network  for
sharing alerts
 Strengthening
IDSP
Long Term(T3)
States  should,
modify  or  adapt
IMD’s  warning
system  according
to  thresholds
applicable in each
state
31. The other items apart from item (1) as noticed
above  in paragraph  7, which  are relevant  is as
follows:-
Biological & Public Health Emergencies (BPHE) 
Sub-Thematic
Area for DRR
Central/State Agencies and their Responsibilities
Centre# Responsibility  -
Centre
State# Responsibility
-State

[PAGE 36]
36
2. Hazard  Risk
Vulnerability
and  Capacity
Assessment
(HRVCA)
MHFW*,
MAFW*, MHA,
MOD, MOES,
MOEFCC,
MSJE, NDMA
Recurring/ 
Regular (RR)
• Promote studies,
documentation
and research 
• Provide Training
&  Technical
support 
•  Studies  on
vulnerabilities
and  capacities
covering
social,
physical,
economic,
ecological,
gender,  social
inclusion  and
equity  aspects
Short-Term (T1)
Develop guidelines
HFWD,
DMD$,
SDMA,
DRD,
UDD,
DWSD,
EFD,
AHD,
WCD,
DSJE,
PRI,
ULB,
SLRTI,
DDMA
Recurring/
Regular (RR)
 Updating HRVCA
 Identifying
the vulnerable
population/
communities/
settlements 
 Identification
of  groups
requiring
special
attention
 Conduct  audit
of  equipment
and  hu  man
resource
requirements
Short term(T1)
Constitute/
strengthen  the
mechanisms  for
consultation with
experts  and
stakeholders
3 Dissemination
of  warnings,
data  &
information
MHFW, MHA,
MOD, MOES,
MAFW,
MOEFCC,
NDMA
Recurring/
Regular (RR)
 Support for 
organising 
training 
 Extend technical
support
HFWD*,
DMD$,
SDMA,
DRD,
UDD,
DWSD,
EDD,
PD,
EFD,
AHD,
WCD,
PRI,
ULB,
SLRTI,
DDMA
Short Term (T1)
 Create
awareness
preventive
measures
 Extensive  IEC
campaigns  to
create
awareness
through print,
electronic and
social media 
Medium Term (T2)
Specific messages
for  highly
vulnerable groups
such as elderly,
young  children,
outdoor  workers
and  slum

[PAGE 37]
37
residents
4 Disaster Data
Collection
and
Management
MHA* ,
MOSPI, all
ministries/
depts.
Recurring/ 
Regular (RR) 
Systematic data 
management of data 
on disaster damage 
and loss 
assessments
Short Term (T1)
Disaster Damage and
Losses  2005-2015
baseline
DMD$,
SDMA,
all
depts.
Recurring/
Regular (RR) 
Systematic data 
management of 
data on disaster 
damage and loss 
assessments
Short Term (T1) 
Disaster Damage
and Losses 2005-
2015 baseline
Notes: (#) Every ministry, department or agency of
the government – central and state – not specifically
mentioned will also have both direct and indirect
supporting role depending on the disaster, location
and context. (*) The ministry, department or agency
with this symbol has or is deemed to have a nodal or
lead role, while others mentioned have a direct or
explicit  supporting  role.  ($)  DMD  —Disaster
Management  Department:  The  state  government
department  acting  as  the  nodal  department  for
disaster management, which is not the same in every
state/UT.
32. Paragraph  7.15.2  deals  with  inter-agency
coordination in these items. Paragraph 7.15.3 deals
with  investing  in  DRR  –  Structural  measures.
Paragraph 7.15.4 deals with investing in DRR – Non-
structural  measures.  Paragraph  7.15.5  deals  with
capacity development. Paragraph 7.15.6 deals with
climate  change  risk  management.  The  plan,  thus,

[PAGE 38]
38
contains detailed treatment of Biological and Public
Health Emergencies as noticed above, which have been
detailed at pages 117 to 130 of the Annexure-R1 of
the counter affidavit. All aspects of Biological and
Public Health Emergencies have been, thus, dealt in
systematic and planned manner. The Plan of 2019 in
different paragraphs deals with entire framework. 
33. The  submission  which  has  been  pressed  by
petitioner is that despite existence of Plan, 2019,
there has to be specific Plan dealing with COVID-19,
hence, Union of India may be directed to prepare a
National Plan under Section 11 for COVID-19. Section
11 of the Act provides that there shall be a plan for
Disaster Management for the whole of the Country.
Sub-Section (3) of Section 11 requires that the
National Plan shall include: -
“11.(3) The National Plan shall include-
(a) measures  to  be  taken  for  the
prevention  of  disasters,  or  the
mitigation of their effects;

[PAGE 39]
39
(b) measures  to  be  taken  for  the
integration of mitigation measures
in the development plans;
 
(c) measures  to  be  taken  for
preparedness and capacity building
to  effectively  respond  to  any
threatening disaster situations or
disaster; 
(d) roles  and  responsibilities  of
different Ministries or Departments
of  the  Government  of  India  in
respect of measures specified in
clauses (a), (b) and (c). ”
34. The object and purpose of preparing a National
Plan is to cope up and tackle with all conceivable
disasters  which  the  country  may  face.  When  the
measures  have  to  be  taken  for  preparedness  and
capacity  building  to  effectively  respond  to  any
threatening disaster situation, the section does not
contemplate preparation of Plan after a disaster has
occurred. 
35. National Plan and guidelines as contemplated by
the statute for Disaster Management is by its very
nature prior to the occurrence of any disaster and as

[PAGE 40]
40
a measure of preparedness. It is not conceivable that
a National Plan would be framed after the disaster
has  occurred.  A  National  Plan  encompasses  and
contemplate all kinds of disasters. 
36. As noticed above, Biological and Public Health
Emergencies has already been contemplated in the
National Plan, 2019, which as noticed in table 1-1
under  paragraph  1.13.1  specifically  includes
epidemics: Viral, Bacterial, Parasitic, Fungal and
prion infections.  Novel Coronavirus is an epidemic
which has become a pandemic.  Epidemics of different
nature and extent have taken place in this country as
well as other countries of the world. A pandemic is
an epidemic, i.e., spread over multiple countries/
continents. An epidemic, as a disaster has been known
and recognized throughout the world with which most
of the countries are infected time and again. As
noticed above, Plan-2019 is complemented by several

[PAGE 41]
41
plans, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), Manuals,
Guidelines at all levels of the Government. 
37. The  National  Disaster  Management  Authority,
Government of India, had issued National Disaster
Management  Guidelines  in  July,  2008  on  subject
“Management of Biological Disasters”. The guideline
specifically  notices  that  “Biological  Disasters”
might be caused by epidemics, the guidelines states:-
“Biological disasters might be caused by
epidemics, accidental release of virulent
microorganism(s) or Bioterrorism (BT) with
the  use  of  biological  agents  such  as
anthrax, smallpox, etc. The existence of
infectious diseases has been known among
human communities and civilisations since
the dawn of the history. The Classical
literature  of  nearly  all  civilisations
record the ability of major infections to
decimate  populations,  thwart  military
campaigns  and  unsettle  nations.  Social
upheavals  caused  by  epidemics  have
contributed in shaping history over the
ages...”
38. Thus, the National Disaster Management Authority
was  well aware  of the  epidemics and  had issued

[PAGE 42]
42
guidelines in the year 2008 itself which has been
further detailed in Plan-2019. All aspects of the
epidemics,  all  measures  to  contain  an  epidemic,
preparedness,  response,  mitigation  have  been
elaborately dealt in Plan, 2019. Unless the National
Plan as contemplated under Section 11 contains all
aspects of disaster including the Biological and
Public Health Emergencies, it will not be possible
for  the  Governments  to  immediately  respond  and
contain an epidemic. 
39. The Disaster Management Act, 2005 contain ample
powers  and measures,  which can  be taken  by the
National  Disaster  Management  Authority,  National
Executive Committee and Central Government to prepare
further  plans,  guidelines  and  Standard  Operating
Procedure (SOPs), which in respect to COVID-19 have
been done from time to time. Containment Plan for
Novel Coronavirus, 2019 has been issued by Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India,

[PAGE 43]
43
copy of which updated up to 16.05.2020 has been
brought on record as Annexure-R4. There are no lack
of guidelines, SOPs and Plan to contain COVID-19, by
Nodal Ministry and Annexure R-6 has been brought on
record  issued  by  Ministry  of  Health  and  Family
Welfare,  Government  of  India,  i.e.,  Updated
Containment  Plan  for  Large  Outbreaks  Novel
Coronavirus Disease, 2019 (COVID-19).
40. National Executive Committee as well as Nodal
Ministry has issued guidelines and orders from time
to time to regulate all measures to contain COVID-19.
The petitioners are not right in their submissions
that there is no sufficient plan to deal with COVID-
19 pandemic. COVID-19 being a Biological and Public
Health Emergency, which has been specifically covered
by National Plan, 2019, which is supplemented by
various plans, guidelines and measures, there is no
lack or dearth of plans and procedures to deal with
COVID-19.

[PAGE 44]
44
41. We may also notice that this Court in  Gaurav
Kumar Bansal Vs. Union of India and Others, (2017) 6
SCC 730, has noticed that National Plan under Section
11 has already been approved by National Disaster
Management Authority. In paragraph 7 of the judgment,
following was laid down: -
“7. It was further pointed out that a
National plan has been approved and placed
on the website of NDMA in terms of Section
11  of  the  Act  and  the  guidelines  for
minimum standards of relief under Section
12 of the Act have also been placed on the
website of NDMA.”
42. In view of above discussion, we do not find any
merit in the claim of the petitioner that Union of
India be directed to prepare a National Plan under
Section 11 for COVID-19. National Plan, 2019 have
already been there in place supplemented by various
orders and measures taken by competent authorities
under Disaster Management Act, 2005, there is no
occasion or need to issue any direction to Union of

[PAGE 45]
45
India to prepare a fresh National Plan for COVID-19.
We, thus, hold that Union of India is not obliged to
prepare,  notify  and  implement  a  fresh  National
Disaster Management Plan for COVID-19.
QUESTION NO.II
II) Whether the Union of India was obliged to lay
down  the  minimum  standards  of  relief  under
Section  12  of  Act,  2005,  for  COVID-19
irrespective of earlier guidelines issued under
Section 12 of the Act laying down the minimum
standards of relief?
43. Section 12 of the Act, deals with guidelines for
Minimum  Standards  of  Relief.  Section  12  is  as
follows:-
“12. Guidelines for minimum standards of
relief.  — The  National  Authority  shall
recommend  guidelines  for  the  minimum
standards  of  relief  to  be  provided  to
persons affected by disaster, which shall
include, — 
(i) the minimum requirements to
be provided in the relief
camps  in  relation  to
shelter,  food,  drinking
water,  medical  cover  and
sanitation;

[PAGE 46]
46
(ii) the special provisions to
be  made  for  widows  and
orphans;
(iii) ex  gratia  assistance  on
account of loss of life as
also assistance on account
of damage to houses and for
restoration  of  means  of
livelihood; 
(iv) such other relief as may be
necessary.”
44. The petitioner’s case as noticed above is that
the  Centre should come up with detailed guidelines
under Section 12(ii) and (iii) of Disaster Management
Act, 2005, recommending special provisions to be made
for widows and orphans and ex-gratia assistance to be
provided to the kith and kin of those losing life
because of COVID-19 infections but also as a result
of harsh lockdown restrictions. It is submitted that
there  are  no  guidelines  providing  for  minimum
standards  for  COVID-19.  The  above  claim  of  the
petitioner  is  refuted  by  the  respondents.  The
respondents have brought on record the guidelines of
minimum standards of relief under Section 12 as

[PAGE 47]
47
existing prior to COVID-19, which has been filed as
Annexure-R7 to the counter affidavit. The guidelines
filed as Annexure-R7 deals with 
(i) definition  of  Relief  and  Rehabilitation
Camp, 
(ii) Minimum standards in respect of Shelter in
relief camps, 
(iii) Minimum Standards in respect of Food in
relief camps,
(iv) Minimum Standards in respect of Water in
relief camps, 
(v) Minimum Standards in respect of Sanitation
in relief camps, 
(vi) Minimum Standards in respect of medical
cover in relief camps and 
(vii) Minimum Standards of Relief for Widows and
Orphans. 
45. The guidelines brought on record under Annexure-
R7, which were in existence since before declaration

[PAGE 48]
48
of  COVID-19  pandemic,  covers  all  statutory
requirement as enumerated in Section 12. Section 12
contemplates  minimum  standards  of  relief  to  be
provided to persons affected by disaster. The word
‘disaster’ mentioned in Section 12 encompasses all
the disasters including the present disaster. Section
12 does not contemplate that there shall be different
guidelines  for  minimum  standards  of  relief  for
different disasters. 
46. The uniform guidelines are contemplated so that
persons  affected  by  disaster  are  provided  with
minimum requirement in the relief camps in respect of
shelter, food, drinking water, medical cover and
sanitation and other reliefs as contemplated in the
section. There being already guidelines for minimum
standards in place even before COVID-19, the said
guidelines for minimum standards holds good even for
those who are affected by COVID-19. Section 12 does
not  contemplate  that  afresh  guidelines  for  the

[PAGE 49]
49
minimum standards of relief be issued with regard to
COVID-19. The prayer of the petitioner to direct the
Union  of  India  to  issue  fresh  guidelines  under
Section 12 to be provided to persons infected with
COVID-19 is misconceived. 
47. The  Government  of  India  vide  order  dated
14.03.2020  has  decided  to  treat  COVID-19,  the
pandemic, as a notified disaster for the purpose of
providing assistance under State Disaster Response
Fund, norms of assistance for ex-gratia payment to
families of deceased persons, norms of assistance for
COVID-19 positive persons requiring hospitalization
and some other assistance to be provided from State
Disaster Response Fund have been notified by the
Government of India. 
48. In view of the foregoing discussions, we hold
that Union of India is not obliged to lay down
minimum standards of relief under Section 12 of the

[PAGE 50]
50
Act, 2005 for COVID-19 and the guidelines issued
under Section 12 providing for minimum standards of
relief holds good for pandemic COVID-19 also. 
QUESTION NOS. 3, 4 AND 5
III) Whether Union of India is obliged to utilise
National Disaster Response Fund created under
Section 46 of the Act for the purpose of
providing assistance in the fight of COVID-19?
IV) Whether  all  the  contributions/grants  from
individuals  and  institutions  should  be
credited to the NDRF in terms of Section 46(1)
(b) of the Act rather than PM CARES Fund?
V) Whether all the funds collected in the PM
CARES  Fund  till  date  be  directed  to  be
transferred to the NDRF?
49. All the three questions being inter-related are
taken together. The submissions of the petitioner
centre around National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF)
and PM CARES Fund. We need to notice the nature and
character  of  these  funds  for  appreciating  the
submissions made by the learned counsel for the
parties. Chapter IX of the Disaster Management Act,
2005 deals with Finance, Accounts and Audit. Section

[PAGE 51]
51
46 provides for National Disaster Response Fund.
Section 46 reads:
“46. National Disaster Response Fund .—(1)
The  Central  Government  may,  by
notification  in  the  Official  Gazette,
constitute  a  fund  to  be  called  the
National  Disaster  Response  Fund  for
meeting any threatening disaster situation
or disaster and there shall be credited
thereto— 
(a) an amount which the Central
Government  may,  after  due
appropriation  made  by
Parliament  by  law  in  this
behalf provide;
(b) any grants that may be made by
any person or institution for
the  purpose  of  disaster
management. 
(2)  The  National  Disaster  Response
Fund  shall  be  made  available  to  the
National Executive Committee to be applied
towards meeting the expenses for emergency
response,  relief  and  rehabilitation  in
accordance with the guidelines laid down
by the Central Government in consultation
with the National Authority.”
50. The  Central  Government  by  notification  dated
27.09.2010  which  was  published  in  Gazette
Extraordinary on 28.09.2010 issued under sub-Section

[PAGE 52]
52
(1) of Section 46 of Act, 2005 constituted “National
Disaster  Response  Fund”.  The  notification  dated
27.09.2010 reads:
“MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 27th September, 2010
s.O.2346(E).-  In  exercise  of  the
powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of
Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act,
2005 (53 of 2005), the Central Government
hereby constitutes the National Disaster
Response  Fund  (hereinafter  NDRF)  for
meeting any threatening disaster situation
or disaster.
[F.No.32-3/2010-NDM-I]
R.K.SRIVASTAVA, Jr. Secy.”
51. Ministry of Home Affairs (Disaster Management
Division) has issued guidelines on Constitution and
Administration of the National Disaster Response Fund
(NDRF). Section 46(1) as noted above contemplates
crediting of two kind of amounts, i.e., (a) an amount
which  the  Central  Government  may,  after  due
appropriation made by Parliament by law in this

[PAGE 53]
53
behalf provide; and (b)any grants that may be made by
any person or institution for the purpose of disaster
management.
52. The  guidelines  for  constitution  and
administration of NDRF have been brought on record by
the petitioner at page 129 of the writ petition. The
guidelines came into force with effect from financial
year 2010-11. Paragraph 3.1 enumerated the calamities
covered under NDRF. Paragraph 3.1 is as follows:
“3.1  Natural  calamities  of  cyclone,
drought, earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami,
hailstorm,  landslide,  avalanche,  cloud
burst and pest attack considered to be of
severe nature by Government of India and
requiring  expenditure  by  a  State
Government  in  excess  of  the  balances
available  in  its  own  State  Disaster
Response  Fund  (SDRF),  will  qualify  for
immediate relief assistance from NDRF.”
53. Paragraph  5  of  the  guidelines  deals  with
contribution to the NDRF. Paragraphs 5.1 to 5.5 are
as follows:
“5.1 The closing balance of the NCCF at
the end of financial year 2009-10 shall be

[PAGE 54]
54
the opening balance of the NDRF in the
year 2010-11. 
5.2 Funds will be credited into the NDRF
in accordance with the provisions of the
Disaster Management Act, 2005. 
5.3 The budget provision for transferring
funds to the NDRF as mentioned in para 5.2
above shall be made in the Demand for
grants no. 35- “Transfers to State and UT
Governments”  (under  non-plan  provision).
Releases to State Governments will be made
by  the  Ministry  of  Finance  from  this
provision. 
5.4 During the years 2010-15 transfers to
the NDRF established in the Public Account
of India will be made by operating the
following  heads  of  account:  Major  Head
“2245-Relief  on  account  of  Natural
Calamities – 80- General-797-Transfers to
Reserve  Funds  and  Deposit  Account’-
Transfer  to  National  Disaster  Response
Fund. 
5.5 Contributions made by any person or
institution for the purpose of disaster
management will also be credited to the
NDRF.  Modalities  covering  such
contributions will be prescribed in due
course.”

[PAGE 55]
55
54. Paragraph  7.1  of  the  guidelines  deals  with
assessment  of  relief  assistance  from  the  NDRF.
Paragraph 7.1 is as follows:
“7.1 Upon a request made by a State not
having  adequate  balance  in  its  State
Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), Ministry of
Home  Affairs  or  the  Ministry  of
Agriculture,  as  the  case  may  be,  will
assess  whether  a  case  for  additional
assistance from NDRF is made out under
these guidelines and the approved items
and norms of assistance under NDRF/SDRF.
The following procedure will be adopted
for making such assessment:
(i) The memorandum of the State
Government will be examined to
assess the likely requirement
of  funds  as  per  items  and
norms  of  expenditure  under
SDRF/NDRF. If the preliminary
examination reveals that there
are  adequate  funds  in  SDRF
with the State for providing
relief as per norms, the State
would be advised accordingly. 
(ii) If the preliminary examination
reveals that the State is in
need of assistance, a Central
Team  will  be  deputed  for
making  an  on  the  spot
assessment. 

[PAGE 56]
56
(iii) The report of the Central Team
shall  be  examined  by  the
National  Executive  Committee
(NEC)  constituted  under
section 8 of the DM Act, 2005.
The NEC will assess the extent
of assistance and expenditure
which can be funded from the
NDRF,  as  per  the  norms  of
NDRF/SDRF,  and  make
recommendations. 
(iv) Based on the recommendations
of NEC, a High Level Committee
(HLC) will approve the quantum
of  immediate  relief  to  be
released from NDRF.”
55. The guidelines for administration of the NDRF
have been revised with effect from financial year
2015-16 which have been brought on record at page 154
of the writ petition. Paragraph 3.1 of the guidelines
is same as under guidelines for the financial year
2010-11. Paragraph 4.1 provides:
“4.1 The NDRF will be operated by the
Government of India for the purpose of
providing  immediate  relief  to  people
affected by the above mentioned calamities
which are assessed as being of ‘severe
nature’, following the procedure described
in para 7 of these guidelines. NDRF is
classified in the Public Account in the

[PAGE 57]
57
sub-section (b) 'Reserve Funds not bearing
Interest' of the Government of India under
the major head 8235- ‘General and other
Reserve Funds' – 119- National Disaster
Response Fund”.
56. Paragraph 5 deals with contribution to the NDRF
and there are some changes in the guidelines in
paragraph  5.  Paragraphs  5.1  to  5.4  of  the  new
guidelines are as follows:
“5.1 The closing balance of the NDRF at
the  end  of  financial  year  2014-15
shall be the opening balance of the
NDRF in the year 2015-16. 
5.2 Funds will be credited into the NDRF
in accordance with the provisions of
the section 46 (a) & (b) of Disaster
Management Act, 2005. 
5.3 The budget provision for transferring
funds to the NDRF as mentioned in para
5.2 above shall be made in the Demand
for grants no. 35- “Transfers to State
and UT Governments” (under non-plan
provision).  Releases  to  State
Governments  will  be  made  by  the
Ministry  of  Finance  from  this
provision. 

[PAGE 58]
58
5.4 During the years 2015-20 transfers to
the NDRF established in the Public
Account  of  India  will  be  made  by
operating  the  following  heads  of
account: Major Head “2245-Relief on
account of Natural Calamities – 80-
General-797-Transfers to Reserve Funds
and  Deposit  Account’-Transfer  to
National Disaster Response Fund.”
57. The above is the scheme. As per paragraph 10 of
the new guidelines, expenditure from NDRF is meant to
assist a State to provide immediate relief in those
cases  of  severe  calamity,  where  the  expenditure
required is in excess of the balance in the State’s
SDRF. The NDRF is a statutory fund required to be
audited by the Comptroller & Auditor General of
India, which was constituted under Act, 2005 and is
still in existence for the purposes as enumerated in
the statute as well as in the guidelines issued under
Act, 2005. 
58. We may now notice the PM CARES Fund. Petitioner
has brought on record certain details of PM CARES
Fund as Annexure-P13. The details about the PM CARES

[PAGE 59]
59
Fund as brought on record as Annexure-P13 of the writ
petition are as follows:
“Keeping in mind the need for having a
dedicated national fund with the primary
objective  of  dealing  with  any  kind  of
emergency  or  distress  situation,  like
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to
provide relief to the affected, a public
charitable trust under the name of ‘Prime
Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief
in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES
Fund)’ has been set up. 
Click here to Donate Online.
Objectives :
•  To  undertake  and  support  relief  or
assistance  of  any  kind  relating  to  a
public health emergency or any other kind
of emergency, calamity or distress, either
man-made  or  natural,  including  the
creation or upgradation of healthcare or
pharmaceutical facilities, other necessary
infrastructure, funding relevant research
or any other type of support.
• To render financial assistance, provide
grants of payments of money or take such
other steps as may be deemed necessary by
the  Board  of  Trustees  to  the  affected
population.
• To undertake any other activity, which
is  not  inconsistent  with  the  above
Objects.

[PAGE 60]
60
Constitution of the Trust :
•  Prime  Minister  is  the  ex-officio
Chairman of the PM CARES Fund and Minister
of Defence, Minister of Home Affairs and
Minister of Finance, Government of India
are ex-officio Trustees of the Fund.
• The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees
(Prime Minister) shall have the power to
nominate three trustees to the Board of
Trustees who shall be eminent persons in
the field of research, health, science,
social  work,  law,  public  administration
and philanthropy.
• Any person appointed a Trustee shall act
in a pro bono capacity.
Other details :
• The fund consists entirely of voluntary
contributions  from  individuals/
organizations  and  does  not  get  any
budgetary  support.  The  fund  will  be
utilised  in  meeting  the  objectives  as
stated above.
• Donations to PM CARES Fund would qualify
for 80G benefits for 100% exemption under
the Income Tax Act, 1961. Donations to PM
CARES Fund will also qualify to be counted
as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
expenditure under the Companies Act, 2013
• PM CARES Fund has also got exemption
under the FCRA and a separate account for
receiving  foreign  donations  has  been
opened.  This  enables  PM  CARES  Fund  to

[PAGE 61]
61
accept  donations  and  contributions  from
individuals  and  organizations  based  in
foreign countries. This is consistent with
respect  to  Prime  Minister’s  National
Relief  Fund  (PMNRF).  PMNRF  has  also
received foreign contributions as a public
trust since 2011.
CLICK HERE TO DONATE ONLINE”
59. From the above details, it is clear that PM CARES
Fund has been constituted as a  public charitable
trust. After outbreak of pandemic COVID-19, need of
having a dedicated national fund with objective of
dealing  with  any  kind  of  emergency  or  distress
situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and
to provide relief to the affected, a fund was created
by constituting a trust with Prime Minister as an ex-
officio Chairman of PM CARES Fund, with other ex-
officio and nominated Trustees of the Fund. The PM
CARES  Fund  consists  entirely  of  voluntary
contributions from individuals/organisations and does
not get any Budgetary support. No Government money is
credited in the PM CARES Fund. 

[PAGE 62]
62
60. After noticing constitution of NDRF as well as PM
CARES Fund now we may notice the contentions raised
by Shri Dave. The submission of Shri Dave is that the
earlier guidelines for administration of NDRF which
came into force with effect from financial year 2010-
11 have been modified by new guidelines with effect
from  financial year  2015-16, and  now it  is not
possible  for  any  person  or  institution  to  make
contribution to the NDRF. Shri Dave submits that
paragraph 5.5 of earlier guidelines has been deleted
to  benefit  the  PM  CARES  Fund  so  that  all
contributions by any person or institution should go
in the PM CARES Fund. Shri Dave submits that deletion
of paragraph 5.5 of earlier guidelines (at page 130)
in the new guidelines (at page 154-155) makes it
clear that now it is not possible for any person or
institution to make any contribution to NDRF. 
61. There are two reasons for not accepting the above
submission.  Firstly,  paragraph  5.5  of  earlier
guidelines which contemplated contributions by any

[PAGE 63]
63
person or institution for the purpose of disaster
management to the NDRF are very much still there in
the new guidelines, which have come into force with
effect from financial year 2015-16. New guidelines
contain the same heading, i.e., “Contribution to the
NDRF” and guideline 5.2 provides “Funds will be
credited  into  the  NDRF  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Section 46(1)(a) & (b) of the
Disaster Management Act, 2005.” The above guideline
5.2 specifically referred to Section 46(1)(a) & (b)
and Section 46(1)(b) expressly provides that any
grants that may be made by any person or institution
for the purpose of disaster management shall be
credited into the NDRF. The submission that after the
new guidelines, it is not possible for any person or
institution to make any contribution to the NDRF is,
thus, misconceived and incorrect. According to the
statutory provisions of Section 46 as well as new
guidelines enforced with effect from financial year

[PAGE 64]
64
2015-16 any person or institution can still make
contribution to the NDRF.
 
62. Secondly, the PM CARES Fund has been constituted
in the year 2020 after outbreak of pandemic COVID-19
whereas the new guidelines came into force with
effect from 2015-16, on which date the PM CARES Fund
was not in existence, hence, the submission that new
guidelines were amended to benefit the PM CARES Fund
is wholly misconceived.
63. Another limb of submission of Shri Dave is that
although the Government of India vide its letter
dated 14.03.2020 has decided to treat COVID-19 as a
notified  disaster  for  the  purpose  of  providing
assistance under SDRF but no similar notification has
been issued for the purpose of providing assistance
for  COVID-19  under  NDRF.  The  notification  dated
14.03.2020 has been brought on record as Annexure-P10
of the writ petition which reads as follows:

[PAGE 65]
65
   “No.33-4/2020-NDM-I
Government of India
Ministry of Home Affairs
(Disaster Management Division)
C-Wing, 3rd Floor, NDCC-II
Jai Singh Road, New Delhi -110001
Dated 14.03.2020
To
The Chief Secretaries
     (All States)
Subject: Items  and  Norms  of  assistance
from the State Disaster Response
Fund (SDRF) in wake of COVID-19
Virus Outbreak
Sir/Madam
I am directed to refer this Ministry’s
letter No.32-7/2014 dated 8 th April, 2015
on the above mentioned subject.
2. The  Central  Government,  keeping  in
view the spread of COVID-19 virus in India
and  the  declaration  of  COVID-19  as
pandemic by the World Health Organisation
(WHO),  by  way  of  a  special  one  time
dispensation, has decided to treat it as a
notified  disaster  for  the  purpose  of
providing assistance under SDRF.  A list
of  items  and  norms  of  assistance  for
containment  of  COVID-19  Virus  in  India
eligible from SDRF is annexed. 
Yours faithfully,

[PAGE 66]
66
(Sanjeev Kumar Jindal)
Joint Secretary to Government of India
Tel: 23438096
Copy to AS(UT), MHA for making similar
provisions for utilization of UT Disaster
Response Funds by the Union Territories. 
CC for information: PS to HM/MOS(N)/HS”
64. After issuance of the above notification, the
Government  of  India,  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs
(Disaster  Management  Division)  issued  order  of
03.04.2020  on  the  subject:  “Advance  release  of
Central share from State Disaster Risk Management
Fund (SDRMF) for the year 2020-21”. By the said order
the Central Government has released first instalment
of Rs. 11,092/- crores out of Rs.22,184/- crores
which was the Central Share of SDRMF.  All States
have been allocated different amounts for the purpose
of providing assistance under SDRMF. Annexure to the
said notification is at page 161, which indicates
that maximum grant allocated was to the State of
Maharashtra as Rs.1,611/- crores as first instalment

[PAGE 67]
67
and minimum amount to State of Goa, i.e., Rs.6/-
crores  by  the  Centre.  The  notification  dated
14.03.2020 clearly permits providing the assistance
under  SDRMF  for  COVID-19.  In  event,  any  State
expenditure  is in  excess of  the balance  in the
State’s SDRMF, the State is entitled for the release
of fund from NDRF as it is clear from new guidelines
filed at pages 154 to 158 of the writ petition. The
submission of the petitioner that NDRF cannot be used
for any assistance for COVID-19, thus, cannot be
accepted. 
65. There is one more aspect of the matter which
needs to be noted. When the Centre is providing
financial assistance to the State to take measures to
contain COVID-19, as we have noticed above that by
order  dated  03.04.2020  first  instalment  of  Rs.
11,092/- crores which is the Central Share to the
SDRMF has been given and there is nothing on record
that any State has exceeded the expenditure in excess

[PAGE 68]
68
of the balance in the State’s SDRMF, there is no
occasion of asking more fund by the State from NDRF.
When the Central Government is providing financial
assistance to the States to contain COVID-19 it is
not for any PIL petitioner to say that Centre should
give  amount  from  this  fund  or  that  fund.  The
financial planning is in the domain of the Central
Government, which financial planning is made after
due deliberation and consideration. We, thus, do not
find  any  substance  in  the  submission  of  the
petitioner  that  there  is  any  statutory
restriction/prohibition in utilization of NDRF for
COVID-19. More so when sub-section (2) of Section 46
specifically  provides  that  NDRF  shall  be  made
available to the National Executive Committee to be
applied towards meeting the expenses for emergency
response, relief and rehabilitation in accordance
with  the  guidelines  laid  down  by  the  Central
Government, the NDRF can be used for containment of
COVID-19. 

[PAGE 69]
69
66. Further as observed above, it is for the Central
Government to take the decision as from which fund
what financial measures are to be taken and it is
neither  for  PIL  petitioner  to  claim  that  any
financial assistance be made from particular fund nor
this Court to sit in judgment over the financial
decisions of the Central Government.
67. The PM CARES Fund is a public charitable trust
and is not a Government fund. The charitable trusts
are public trusts. Black’s Law Dictionary, Tenth
Edition defines charitable trust in following words:
“charitable  trust.  A  trust  created  to
benefit  a  specific  charity,  specific
charities, or the general public rather
than  a  private  individual  or  entity.
Charitable trusts are often eligible for
favorable tax treatment.”
68. The mere fact that administration of the Trust is
vested in trustees, i.e., a group of people, will not

[PAGE 70]
70
itself take away the public character of the Trust as
has been laid down in Mulla Gulam Ali & Safiabai D.
Trust Vs. Deelip Kumar & Co., (2003) 11 SCC 772. In
paragraph 4, this Court laid down:
“4. The mere fact that the control in
respect of the administration of the Trust
vested  in  a  group  of  people  will  not
itself take away the public character of
the Trust……………………………..”
 
69. The  contributions  made  by  individuals  and
institutions in the PM CARES Fund are to be released
for public purpose to fulfill the objective of the
trust.  The PM  CARES Fund  is a  charitable trust
registered under the Registration Act, 1908 at New
Delhi on 27.03.2020. The trust does not receive any
Budgetary support or any Government money. It is not
open for the petitioner to question the wisdom of
trustees  to  create  PM  CARES  fund  which  was
constituted with an objective to extend assistance in
the wake of public health emergency that is pandemic
COVID-19. 

[PAGE 71]
71
70. Shri Dave during submissions has fairly submitted
that  he  is  not  questioning  the  bona  fide  of
constitution of PM CARES Fund.  His submission is
that NDRF is audited by CAG but PM CARES Fund is not
audited  by  CAG  rather  by  a  private  Chartered
Accountant. The nature of NDRF and PM CARES Fund are
entirely different. The guidelines issued under Act,
2005 with regard to NDRF specifically provides for
audit  of the  NDRF by  the Comptroller  & Auditor
General of India whereas for public charitable trust
there is no occasion for audit by the Comptroller &
Auditor General of India. 
71. We may notice one more aspect with regard to
COVID-19. We have noticed above that guidelines which
were issued for constitution and administration of
NDRF  and  State’s  SDRMF,  the  guidelines  provided
utilization of fund for limited calamities, which did
not  include  any  biological  and  public  health
emergency. We have already noticed Clause 3.1 of

[PAGE 72]
72
guidelines for administration of NDRF, which did not
provide for the calamities which cover the biological
and  public  health  emergency.  Thus,  under  the
guidelines which were in existence with effect from
financial year 2015-16 neither NDRF nor SDRF covered
the biological and public health emergencies.  It was
only by notification dated 14.03.2020 that COVID-19
was treated as notified disaster for the purpose of
providing assistance under SDRF. Obviously prior to
this notification dated 14.03.2020 no contribution by
any person or institution in the NDRF could have been
made with respect to specified disaster, namely,
biological and public health emergency like COVID-19,
Outbreak  of COVID-19  in India  as well  as other
countries of the World required immediate enhancement
in the infrastructure of medical health and creation
of fund to contain COVID-19. At this need of the hour
no exception can be taken to the constitution of a
public charitable trust, namely, PM CARES Fund to

[PAGE 73]
73
have  necessary  financial  resources  to  meet  the
emergent situation.
 
72. The NDRF and PM CARES Fund are two entirely
different funds with different object and purpose. In
view of the foregoing discussions, we answer question
Nos.3, 4 and 5 in following manner:
Answer 3. The Union of India can very well
utilize the NDRF for providing assistance in the
fight of COVID-19 pandemic by way of releasing
fund on the request of the States as per new
guidelines. 
Answer  4.  Any  contribution,  grant  of  any
individual or institution is not prohibited to be
credited into the NDRF and it is still open for
any person or institution to make contribution to
the NDRF in terms of Section 46(1)(b) of the Act,
2005. The contribution by any person or by any

[PAGE 74]
74
institution in PM CARES Fund is voluntary and it
is open for any person or institution to make
contribution to the PM CARES Fund.
Answer 5. The funds collected in the PM CARES
Fund are entirely different funds which are funds
of a public charitable trust and there is no
occasion for issuing any direction to transfer
the said funds to the NDRF. 
73. In view of the foregoing discussions, the prayer
‘a’ and ‘b’ made in the writ petition are refused.
With respect to prayer ‘c’, we make it clear (i) that
there is no statutory prohibition for the Union of
India utilizing the NDRF for providing assistance in
the  fight  of  COVID-19  in  accordance  with  the
guidelines issued for administration of NDRF; (ii)
there is no statutory prohibition in making any
contribution by any person or institution in the NDRF
as per Section 46(1)(b)of the Act, 2005. 

[PAGE 75]
75
74. The prayer of the petitioner to direct all the
funds collected in the PM CARES Fund till date to be
transferred to the NDRF is refused. 
75. Subject to clarification of law as made above,
the writ petition is dismissed. 
......................J.
                                 ( ASHOK BHUSHAN )
......................J.
                                ( R. SUBHASH REDDY )
......................J.
                                   ( M.R. SHAH )
New Delhi,
August 18, 2020.