



	
	
Explaining the VVIP chopper row that has rocked Parliament | Explained News - The Indian Express
	
	
    
        
        
    		
		




































			
			 
		



					
					
					
		
		
		
		
	
	

						skip to content
							
	
		
			
				
				
				
					
				
			
			
								
						
						Journalism of Courage
					
							
			
				
					Subscribe				
							
		
	
	
		
			Explained		
		
					
	
	
		
					
			

						
			
		
			
				
		
			
News
Explained
Explaining the VVIP chopper row that has rocked Parliament		
	
						
											
							

					
			This is an archive article published on April 28, 2016
		
										Premium
							

				Explaining the VVIP chopper row that has rocked Parliament			
							
Italy’s investigation into Finmeccanica’s alleged graft has raised enormous political dust in Parliament. Sushant Singh recaps.
					
		
		
						
				
					
						Written by: Sushant Singh					
				
				
					10 min readDec 9, 2016 06:37 PM IST 					
						First published on: Apr 28, 2016 at 01:29 AM IST 					
				
				
					
						

				Make us preferred source on Google
			
						

						
							
								
							
							Share
						
						
						

							
								
									
								
								Comments
							
						
						

							
								Bookmark
							
							
								Bookmark
							
						
						

							
								
									
								
								Print
							
						
					
							
			
				 In 2010, AgustaWestland signed a Rs 3,546 crore contract to supply 12 AW-101 helicopters to the IAF. Eight of these helicopters were to be used to transport VVIPs.

When, how did the controversy erupt?

On February 24, 2012, The Indian Express reported that an investigation begun by the Italian attorney general’s office into alleged unethical dealings by the state-backed defence major Finmeccanica had widened to include corruption in an over Rs 3,500-crore deal signed with India by the group’s subsidiary AugustaWestland for the supply of helicopters. This paper subsequently reported the investigation and arrest in Switzerland later that year of Guido Ralph Haschke, a middleman who allegedly got 51 million eruros from AgustaWestland to swing the contract. In February 2013, the Italian police arrested the Chief Executive and Chairman of Finmeccanica SpA, Giuseppe Orsi. The arrest warrant charged him with paying bribes of Rs 360 crore to intermediaries to secure the sale of the helicopters to India when he was head of the group’s AgustaWestland unit.Advertisement

WATCH VIDEO | Former Air Chief SP Tyagi Arrested In VVIP Chopper Scam


So, what was the AgustaWestland deal?

In 2010, AgustaWestland signed a Rs 3,546 crore contract to supply 12 AW-101 helicopters to the IAF. Eight of these helicopters were to be used to transport VVIPs such as the President, the Prime Minister, the Vice President and others, while four were to be used for other duties. Finmeccanica edged out American chopper maker Sikorsky’s S-92 Superhawk to bag the contract.Advertisement

The AW-101s were meant to replace the Soviet Mi-8 helicopters being used to transport the VVIPs, which had completed their technical life. The IAF also cited “service ceiling” — the altitude at which a helicopter can fly — and the Mi-8s’ lack of night-flying capabilities to seeking a new fleet of helicopters. The demand originated in 1999 and the tender was put out in 2005. The first tender had a service ceiling requirement of 6,000 metres, which was reduced by the Defence Ministry in the second tender in 2006 to 4,500 m.

Read: Govt says bribe-giver convicted, will identify taker, Sonia says do the probe

What did the probe by the Italians find?

The Italian probe, which started after allegations of corruption surfaced in February 2011, alleged that Orsi and others paid money through intermediaries, including Indian nationals and the US-born consultant, Haschke, who also has Italian nationality. The prosecutors alleged that those middlemen paid the former IAF chief, Air Chief Marshal S P Tyagi, through his cousins, to change the terms of the tender to allow AgustaWestland to win the Indian contract.

The Italian investigators secretly recorded conversations among Haschke, his business partner Carlo Gerosa, and two other individuals while travelling together in Switzerland. According to the Italian judicial report, Haschke spoke of money being routed through Mauritius and Tunisia, to make it difficult to trace, and referred to Indian investigators as “morons” who would take years to track down the links.

The Italians also acted on the testimony of Lorenzo Borgogni, former head of external relations at Finmeccanica, where he alleged that Haschke was hired as an “intermediary” whose compensation was hiked by Euro 10 million at the last minute to Euro 41 million. It was alleged that these 10 million euros were used to bribe Italian politicians.

Watch Video | Agusta Westland: Why Is It A Big Deal Politically Now?


How did the authorities in India react?

The day after the first report appeared in The Indian Express, then Defence Minister A K Antony ordered a probe into the allegations of corruption, and subsequently promised to “seriously pursue the inquiry”. The Defence Ministry said any wrongdoing would attract the strict integrity clause. Following Orsi’s arrest, India froze payments for the choppers, although it had already paid Rs 1,620 crore, 45% of the contract value, and accepted three helicopters. The Ministry also ordered a CBI inquiry, and the agency filed an FIR against 13 persons in March 2013. The Enforcement Directorate too began a probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.

Read: We banned AgustaWestland, NDA opened door again, says Congress

What happened in the Italian courts?

In a 145-page judgment delivered in October 2014, a lower court acquitted Tyagi of all charges. It also acquitted Orsi and former AgustaWestland head Bruno Spagnolini of “charges of international corruption”, but convicted and sentenced them to two years on the lesser charge of “false invoicing”.

This month, the Milan Court of Appeals overturned the lower court verdict and ruled that Orsi and Spagnolini had paid bribes to Indian officials to win the contract. The court indicted Tyagi for being a beneficiary of the bribes. It said payments were made to Tyagi and his family, including three of his cousins, in cash and by wire transfer.

Why is the deal creating a storm in India?

One of the notes submitted to the court has the names of Sonia Gandhi and senior Congressmen Ahmed Patel and Oscar Fernandes among the people the intermediaries purportedly sought to target in order to swing the deal AgustaWestland’s way. A handwritten list of “budget expenditure items” lists the initials ‘AP’, and some scribbles that could be interpreted to indicate senior Indian officials, with some numbers against them. The court, however, refused to take cognizance of this note, calling it an “estimate” that did not prove anything.

Allegations of corruption in a deal signed with an Italian company during the UPA government, given Sonia’s Italian origins, have given the BJP ammunition to attack the Congress in Parliament, where the ruling party is under fire for dismissing the Uttarakhand government.

Read: Judgment not against us…hang me if they find anything against me, says Ahmed Patel

Indicted In Italy

Air Chief Marshal (retd) S P Tyagi

Tyagi was Chief of the Air Staff from 2004 to 2007, and is the only Indian to be indicted by the court. The judgment did not link the illegal payments to Tyagi changing the technical specifications of the choppers to favour AugstaWestland, but said that money was paid to Tyagi through his cousins. It was during Tyagi’s tenure that the altitude ceiling of the helicopters was reduced in the tender from 6,000 m to 4,500 m. However, investigations later showed that the technical specifications had been changed prior to his becoming Chief, on the orders of the Prime Minister’s Office.

Last October, the ED attached five prime residential properties belonging to Sanjeev Tyagi, Sandeep Tyagi and Rajeev Tyagi — all cousins of the former IAF chief — as the “proceeds of crime”. In 2014, the ED had registered a criminal case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, where it claimed that nearly Rs 423 crore was allegedly paid by Michel, Gerosa and Haschke to swing the deal in favour of AgustaWestland. The agency alleged that a bribe of about Rs 7.68 crore was paid by the alleged middlemen to the Tyagi brothers in two tranches, first by way of bank transfer, and then in cash.

Choppers

Where are the three AW-101s?

The IAF is the custodian of these tri-engine helicopters that were delivered to India before the deal was scrapped. The choppers are parked at the Palam airbase in Delhi. The pilots who were trained to fly the machines have moved to other assignments. Meanwhile, the IAF has drawn out six Mi-17V5 helicopters for use by VVIPs.

Cash

Did India recover the money?

India had paid Rs 1,620 crore to AgustaWestland, and encashed the guarantee of Rs 250 crore held in Indian banks in January 2014. After winning a legal case in Italy in June 2014, the Indian government encashed guarantees of Rs 1,818 crore held in Italian banks, taking the total amount recovered so far to Rs 2,068 crore.

CAST OF CHARACTERS

GUIDO HASCHKE & CARLO GEROSA

Haschke had his offices in Switzerland raided by Italian police in April 2012 before being subsequently arrested on charges including money laundering. He is one of the two alleged middlemen in the deal, and phonetaps by Italian investigators suggest he got commissions from AgustaWestland through companies in Tunisia and Mauritius that were controlled by him and his business partner Gerosa. Tapped conversations between the men mention Sanjeev ‘Juli’ Tyagi and lawyer Gautam Khaitan, who was subsequently arrested by the ED. Haschke and Gerosa were directors of the Chandigarh-based IT outsourcing firm Aeromatrix.

CHRISTIAN MICHEL

The well-connected British consultant, who had been very active in the Indian defence sector for several years at the time the scandal erupted, was allegedly hired by AgustaWestland to influence the contract, and got the lion’s share of the Euro 51 million commission. In an interview to The Hindu, Michel said he had never met Sonia Gandhi, and claimed he had written to PM Narendra Modi offering himself up for questioning, but had received no reply.

SANJEEV KUMAR (JULI) TYAGI

The Delhi-based businessman is a cousin of Air Chief Marshal (retd) S P Tyagi’s, and an old friend of Gerosa’s. Juli featured in conversations between Haschke and Gerosa that were taped by Italian investigators in 2012. In October 2014, the ED questioned Juli Tyagi.

GIUSEPPE ORSI

The former CEO and chairman of Finmeccanica was arrested by Italian police on February 12, 2013, alleging that he paid bribes to intermediaries to secure the sale of the helicopters. On October 9, 2014, a lower court acquitted Orsi (and former AgustaWestland CEO Bruno Spagnolini) of corruption, but convicted them of the lesser charge of “falsifying invoices” and sentenced them to two years. On April 7, 2016, an Italian court of appeals overturned the verdict, and sentenced Orsi to four and a half years in prison for corruption and falsifying invoices.

WATCH INDIAN EXPRESS VIDEOS HERE

B]

BRUNO SPAGNOLINI

The former AgustaWestland CEO was, along with Orsi, acquitted of some charges by an Italian lower court in 2014 before being convicted and sentenced to four years in jail by the appeals court this month. Both Spagnolini and Orsi were also ordered to pay fines of 7.5 million euros, a sum related to the amounts deemed to have been allegedly paid in bribes.

 
			
		
		
						 
							
					
						
								

									# Agusta Westland
													
				
				
					
						

				Make us preferred source on Google
			
						

						
							
								
							
							Share
						
						
						

							
								
									
								
								Comments
							
						
						

							
								Bookmark
							
							
								Bookmark
							
						
						

							
								
									
								
								Print
							
						
					
						
		
			
			
				
					
				
				Share
			
			
				
					
						
							
						
					
					Whatsapp
				
				
					
						
							
						
					
					twitter
				
				
					
						
							
								
							
						
					
					Facebook
				
			
			
		
	
			
			
				
					
						
						Latest Comment
					
					
						
					
					
						
							Post Comment
							Read Comments
						
						
					
				
			
		
		
		
		
	
	
			
			
				
				search
			
			 Edition 

					IND
				 

					INT
				
		
		
					
				
					SUBSCRIBE FOR FULL ACCESS
				
			
				
			Install IE App for better experience
			
				Download			
		
		
			Featured
		
		
			
			
					

						
							
							My Express
						
					
					

						
							
							Premium
						
					
					

						
							
							UPSC
						
								
		

		
			
				
					Today's E-paper
				
				
					
				
			
		
		
			Trending Topics
		
		
		
			
UPSC Offer
Long Reads
Health News
Research
Games
🎙️ Podcast		
		
		NewsHome India Opinion Politics World Explained Entertainment  BollywoodHollywoodTelevisionTamilTeluguMalayalamRegionalWeb StoriesMovie ReviewBusiness Sports  CricketLive ScoreChessFootballCities  DelhiMumbaiKolkataPuneChandigarhAhmedabadLucknowChennaiHyderabadBangaloreTechnology Lifestyle  The GenZ vibeHealthFoodFitnessSleep 101PetsRelationshipsTravelWorkplaceFashionArtBooks Health Education Top 10 Shorts My Express Newsletter MultimediaPhotos Videos Audio Web Stories 		
			Follow Us
		
		
			
 Facebook
 X
 Instagram
 LinkedIn
 YouTube
 RSS		
		Link Subscription	

	
		
	
		
		
				
		
			
				Top Categories
				
Explained News

Political Pulse

Latest Opinion

Bollywood News

Health News

India News

Sports News

Lifestyle News

Latest News

Cricket

Tech Reviews

Entertainment News

Weather

Cities

Delhi News

Mumbai News

Kolkata News

Pune News

Chandigarh News

Ahmedabad News

Lucknow News

Chennai News

Hyderabad News

Bangalore News
			
		
		
 	
Trending News

Stock Analysis
Live Cricket Score
Screen Videos
International Videos
Indian Express Live TV
Screen Awards
Mumbai Weather Today
Bangalore Weather Today
Chennai Weather Today
Pune Weather Today
Ahmedabad Weather Today
Lucknow Weather Today
Chandigarh Weather Today
Lucknow Weather Today
Indore Weather Today
Panaji Weather Today
Manali Weather Today
Kodaikanal Weather Today
Thane Weather Today
Bijapur Weather Today
Gulbarga Weather Today
Malegaon Weather Today
Bhusawal Weather Today
Gurgaon Weather Today
Yavatmal Weather Today
Gangtok Weather Today
Thrissur Weather Today
Udupi Weather Today
Koppal Weather Today
Mumbai Weather Today
Dhule Weather Today
Pune Weather Today
Ooty Weather Today
Panchkula Weather Today
Kulgam Weather Today
Kannur Weather Today
Valparai Weather Today
Hosur Weather Today
Indore Weather Today
Rajouri Weather Today
Kolkata Weather Today
Davanagere Weather Today
India News Live
Nana Patekar Death Updates
World News Today
Madurantakam, Dharapuram By-Election Results
Nagaon By-Election Result
Nandigram, Rejinagar By-Election ResultsLATEST STORIES
How Neha Marda turned post-pregnancy struggle into a business: ‘Solving my own problem’
Why was Nana Patekar cremated late at night? Son Malhar Patekar explains
Armed Forces to assess higher Agniveer retention after first batches exit
Delhi Confidential: SP’s Dalit outreach on Kanshi Ram’s death anniversary; Bomb scare delays Mamata’s Delhi flight
Drishyam 3 Box Office Collection Day 7 Updates: Ajay Devgn film inches closer to Rs 400 mark
Smit Machchhar to receive top Israeli bravery award for averting flydubai crash
India News Live Updates, 9 October 2026: Sensex up by 430 points despite US green card move, TCS shares rise
ChatGPT for Teens an ‘unacceptable risk’ to young users: What a new report says
Shriya Saran says playing Nandini last time in Drishyam 3 took its toll: ‘A heavy feeling’
Disillussioned by ‘fake Bollywood’, Amit Sana quit after Indian Idol: ‘Never earned money’
Character.AI chatbots urged users to self-harm, Kentucky lawsuit alleges
Bookstores: This is how India’s silicon city protects its analogue soul
‘Failed’ to provide regular faculty, UPSC coaching institute told to refund Rs 55,000
Popping painkillers for 5 years, he needed dialysis: The hidden cost of self-medication
India-Turkey ties: Why discord over Kashmir hasn’t stopped sporadic cooperation
Counting for 5 assembly, 1 Lok Sabha seats today; big tests for Vijay, Suvendu Adhikari		
			
				
										
					Follow Us
					
						

							
						
						

							
						
						

							
						
						

							
						
					
					
					Download Apps
					
						
  
						
  
					
												
							
								 
								 
								 The Indian Express website has been rated GREEN for its credibility and trustworthiness by Newsguard, a global service that rates news sources for their journalistic standards.
								
							
						
											
				
					Indian Express Group
					
The Indian Express

Indian Express Hindi

ieTamil.com

The Financial Express

ieBangla.com

Loksatta

ieMalayalam.com

Jansatta

ieGujarati.com

Express Tributes

inUth

Indian Express Group

Newsletters

26/11 Stories of Strength

Ramnath Goenka Excellence in Journalism Awards

Light House Journalism

Careers
				
				
					Quick Links
					
T&C

Privacy Policy

Advertise with Us

Brand Solutions

Contact Us

Subscribe

Statutory provisions on reporting (sexual offenses)

This website follows the DNPA’s code of conduct

CSR
				
			
			
					Copyright © 2026 The Indian Express [P] Ltd. All Rights Reserved 
	
		 
		
				

		
		
	

			
				
				
					
					
				
				
	
			
				
	










































		
		
				
			
		
	
	
	

