             Report of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
                   on
  Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




           Union Government
       Defence Services (Air Force)
             No. 10 of 2013



The Report has been laid on the table of the Parliament
            house on 13-08-2013
                    Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs



                                CONTENTS

 Para No./                               Subject                          Page
Sub Para No.
               Preface                                                     ii
     1         Highlights                                                  1
     2         Introduction                                                4
     3         Scope of Audit                                              4
     4         Background                                                  6
     5         Revised Service Qualitative Requirements (SQRs) led to      9
               restricted competition
     6         Acceptance of Necessity                                     11
     7         Issue of revised RFP to limited vendors                     12
     8         Evaluation                                                  13
          8.1 Evaluation of technical offers by TEC                        13
          8.2 Field Evaluation Trials with deviations                      14
          8.3 Staff Evaluation with deviations from laid down procedure    17
     9         Contract Negotiation Committee did not properly assess      18
               the reasonableness of price
     10        Approval by Cabinet Committee on Security                   22
     11        Deviations from Defence Procurement Procedure               23
     12        Excess procurement of helicopters                           26
     13        Delay in procurement                                        27
     14        Non compliance with Offset Provisions                       27
     15        Conclusion                                                  32
               Annexure-I                                                  34
               Chronology of Events                                        35
                        Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs



                                        Preface
The Report contains findings of the examination by Audit on the ‘Acquisition of helicopters
for VVIPs’. The Report emanates from the scrutiny of files and documents pertaining to the
Ministry of Defence and the Indian Air Force (IAF) on the process of acquisition of VVIP
helicopters. Compliance with the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) in the process of
acquisition of VVIP helicopters was also examined. Audit is neither equipped nor
empowered to investigate from a criminal or forensic point of view.

Necessity for acquisition of helicopters for the air transportation of the VVIPs was projected
by Air Headquarters primarily in view of the operational limitations of the existing fleet, as
also due to the impending expiry of their Total Technical Life (TTL). Compliance audit of
the entire process of acquisition was conducted with the objective of examining the
observance of and conformity with the prescribed procedures enunciated in the DPP, with
due regard to adherence to the standards of transparency, probity and public accountability.
It was observed that the entire process of acquisition of VVIP helicopters right from framing
of Services Qualitative Requirements (SQRs) to the conclusion of contract deviated from the
laid down procedures. The process of framing and revision of SQRs not only limited the
number of successful bidders but also resulted in operational disadvantage due to lowering of
mandatory service ceiling. Even with the revision of the SQRs, the acquisition process again
led to a resultant single vendor situation. The shortlisted helicopters were evaluated following
different methodologies which did not give the desired assurance that equal opportunity was
provided to the shortlisted vendors. Field Evaluation Trials (FET) were conducted abroad on
representative helicopters and not on the actual helicopter (AW-101) of AgustaWestland.
Even at the stage of the FET, the helicopter offered by the company was still in its
developmental phase. Further, benchmarked cost was unrealistic and had no correlation with
the estimated cost and the offered cost and thus could not provide a realistic basis for
obtaining an assurance about the reasonableness of cost of procurement of AW-101
helicopters. It was also observed that the past trend of low utilization levels of the existing
fleet over a period of 11 years did not lend credence to the Ministry’s justification for
additional procurement of four helicopters. Due to inordinate delay in finalizing the
acquisition process, IAF continued to face operational disadvantage with the existing
helicopters. In addition, it was observed that offsets were allowed in violation of the DPP.
The entire process of acquisition thus poses serious questions on accountability and lack of
transparency in the finalization of contract, which need to be addressed.

The Report has been prepared for submission to the President of India under Article 151 of
the Constitution.




Report No. 10 of 2013                                                                    Page ii
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs

Highlights

The Communication Squadron of the Indian Air Force (IAF) maintains a fleet
of aircraft and helicopters for providing air transportation to VVIPs. IAF
proposed (August 1999) to replace Mi-8 helicopters in this squadron with an
advanced version of helicopters due to their ageing and operational
limitations. Ministry of Defence (MoD) concluded a contract (February 2010)
with M/s AgustaWestland International Ltd., UK for the procurement of 12
numbers of AW-101 helicopters at a total cost of `3726.96 crore
(Euro 556,262,026). Compliance audit of acquisition of VVIP helicopters was
conducted and the key findings of audit are highlighted below:

      The initial RFP issued in March 2002 for replacement of present Mi-8
       helicopters stipulated a mandatory altitude requirement of 6000 metre.
       The EH-101 helicopter (later renamed as AW-101 of AgustaWestland)
       could not be field evaluated as it was certified to fly upto an altitude of
       4572 metre only. The first RFP was subsequently cancelled due to
       emergence of a resultant single vendor situation. In the revised RFP
       issued in 2006 the mandatory SQR relating to altitude requirement of
       6000 metre was reduced to 4500 metre and a cabin height of atleast
       1.8 metre was introduced. While mandatory requirement of minimum
       cabin height of 1.8 metre reduced the competition, the lowering of
       altitude requirement was against the inescapable operational
       requirement of 6000 metre for transportation to many areas in North
       and North East. The purpose of reframing the SQRs i.e. avoidance of a
       resultant single vendor situation, could not be met because even with
       the revision of SQRs, the acquisition process again led to a resultant
       single vendor situation and AW-101 of AgustaWestland was selected.

                                                           (Paragraph 4 & 5)
      The initial RFP of March 2002 issued to eleven vendors was cancelled
       due to reservations of PMO as it resulted in a single vendor situation.
       In the revised RFP of 2006, instead of making the SQRs broad based to
       increase the competition, these were made more restrictive thereby




Report No.10 of 2013                                                      Page 1
              Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




      narrowing down the choices to a limited range of helicopters. The
      revised RFP was issued only to six vendors.
                                                              (Paragraph 7)
     The Field Evaluation Trial of AW-101 of AgustaWestland was
      conducted on representative helicopters Merlin MK-3A and Civ-01
      and mock-up of the passenger cabin and not on the actual helicopter
      whereas actual S-92 helicopter of Sikorsky was evaluated. Even at the
      stage of the FET, the helicopter offered by AgustaWestland was still in
      its developmental phase. Evaluation of helicopters following different
      methodologies could not give the desired assurance that equal
      opportunity was provided to both the shortlisted vendors.

                                                            (Paragraph 8.2)

     Several instances have been observed where the Ministry had deviated
      from the provisions of the DPP-2006 and RFP issued in September
      2006. While approval for deviation was required to be obtained with
      extreme caution and in exceptional circumstances, the frequent
      deviations made in this case are counter to the principal aim with
      which Paragraph 75 of the DPP-2006 has been incorporated.

                                                             (Paragraph 11)

     IAF continued to face operational disadvantage on the existing
      helicopters due to inordinate delay of more than 10 years in finalizing
      the acquisition process.
                                                            (Paragraph 13)

     Despite the emphasis laid in the DPP-2006 on determination of
      reasonableness of price for the purpose of benchmarking, the
      benchmarked cost (`4871.5 crore) arrived at by CNC was
      unreasonably high and thus it had provided no realistic basis for
      comparison with the offered cost (`3966 crore) of helicopters for price
      negotiations.
                                                              (Paragraph 9)

     Additional procurement of 4 helicopters at a cost of `1240 crore was
      avoidable as assessed requirement was not commensurate with the low




Report No.10 of 2013                                                  Page 2
              Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




      utilisation levels of existing helicopters providing transportation to
      VVIPs in the past.
                                                                (Paragraph 12)
     AgustaWestland had projected seven programmes which were to be
      completed as part of the offset contract. The allowed offsets were not
      compliant with the DPP, besides many Indian Offset Partners (IOPs)
      selected for discharge of offset obligations were not eligible.

                                                             (Paragraph 14)

     There was ambiguity in the offset contract regarding the type of
      services and export orders to be executed by IDS Infotech (Indian
      Offset Partner). AgustaWestland gave an year-wise break up of work
      from 2011 to 2014 to be executed by IDS Infotech under this offset
      programme even though the work had been completed well before the
      conclusion of the contract in 2010.

                                                             (Paragraph 14)




Report No.10 of 2013                                                  Page 3
                  Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




2        Introduction

The Communication Squadron of the Indian Air Force (IAF) is responsible for
providing air transportation to VVIPs. The President, Vice President and
Prime Minister are entitled to use VVIP aircraft. The Raksha Mantri (RM)
and a few other dignitaries can use the VVIP aircraft, if it is essential to do so
and if an aircraft is available. The
Communication Squadron has a mix of
fixed wing aircraft and helicopters for
transportation of VVIPs. IAF had
inducted (1988) six Mi-8 helicopters as
an interim measure for VVIP heli-lift
requirements. However, Ministry
stated (April 2013) that Air HQ
Communication Squadron was using
eight Mi-8 helicopters.


                                                         Mi-8 Helicopter

Since the extended Total Technical Life (TTL) of Mi-8 helicopters was
expiring in 20101 and also because of its operational limitations, Ministry of
Defence (MoD) concluded (February 2010) a contract with
M/s AgustaWestland International Limited, UK (AgustaWestland) for the
purchase of 12 number of AW-101 VVIP/non-VIP helicopters along with
Engineering Support Packages and accompanied accessories at the total
contract price amounted to Euro 556,262,026 (`3726.96 crore)2. Along with
the main contract, an offset contract was separately concluded (February
2010) for discharging the offset obligation valuing Euro 166,879,000
(`1118.09 crore).

3         Scope of Audit

The Compliance Audit of the process of acquisition of the VVIP/non-VIP
helicopters, was conducted with the objective of examining the observance of

1
    TTL was further extended upto 2014.
2
    1 Euro= `67




Report No.10 of 2013                                                       Page 4
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




and conformity with the prescribed procedures relating to procurement
including those enunciated in the extant Defence Procurement Procedures
(DPP). The acquisition process for the scheme categorized as ‘BUY’ involved
the following functions:

      Framing of Services Qualitative Requirements (SQRs);
      Acceptance of Necessity (AoN);
      Solicitation of offers;
      Evaluation of Technical offers by Technical Evaluation Committee
       (TEC);
      Field Evaluation Trials (FET);
      Staff Evaluation;
      Oversight by Technical Oversight Committee (TOC) for Acquisitions
       above `300 crore;
      Commercial negotiations by Contract Negotiation Committee (CNC);
      Approval of Competent Financial Authority (CFA); and
      Award of contract / Supply Order (SO).
We scrutinized in audit, the papers relating to initiation of proposal for
acquisition of VVIP helicopters, issue of Request for Proposal (RFP) in 2002
and its cancellation, re-framing of SQRs, re-issue of RFP in 2006 and
subsequent conclusion of contract in 2010. We issued a Statement of Case
along with a questionnaire on the acquisition of VIP helicopters to Air
Headquarters (Air HQ) in July 2010. The reply thereto received from Air HQ
in June 2012 was analyzed and the draft paragraph was referred to Ministry
again in February 2013. Ministry’s reply received in March 2013 and April
2013 has been duly considered and incorporated appropriately in this Report.

We also reviewed the compliance with the offset obligations prescribed in
Paragraph 22 of DPP-2006 where indicative cost is above `300 crore and the
scheme is categorized as ‘BUY (Global)’ involving outright purchase.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                 Page 5
                  Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




4        Background

Air HQ observed (January 1994) that the existing Mi-8 helicopters had the
following restrictions/shortcomings:

    (i) Operations only during day light conditions;
    (ii) Operations only during good weather;
    (iii) Inability to operate safely at places elevated beyond 2000 metre; and
    (iv) Adverse comments on noise and vibration level (by VVIPs)

Viewed against the above limitations, Air HQ identified five different types of
helicopters (January 1994) for air transportation of VVIPs. Mi-17 Deluxe and
the Mi-172 were shortlisted on the basis of better engine performance,
expected reduction in cabin noise and vibrations, improved avionics and
helicopter systems for night and all weather operations. Air HQ proposed
(January 1994) for the acquisition of two such helicopters after having
conducted the flight and technical evaluations in Russia. However, the
proposal was not pursued further by Air HQ. In August 1999, a revised
proposal for replacement of existing Mi-8 helicopters was submitted to MoD.
The revised proposal envisaged replacement of the existing fleet with
helicopters possessing better capability in terms of Instrument Flight Rules
(IFR)3, high altitude operations and better passenger comfort. After a lapse of
two years, Air HQ firmed up (February 2002) the Operational Requirements
(ORs) for the VVIP fleet in consultation with the Prime Minister’s Office
(PMO). Amongst other ORs, Air HQ prescribed a mandatory altitude
requirement of 6000 metre. In March 2002, based on the ORs so firmed up,
MoD issued an RFP to 11 Original Equipment Manufacturers
(OEMs)/authorized vendors who were shortlisted by Air HQ/ MoD for
procurement of eight helicopters. The list of prospective vendors had been
compiled from Jane’s Aviation. Only four vendors responded to the RFP and
three helicopters, namely, Mi-172, EC-225 and EH-1014 were recommended
by the TEC for flight evaluation. Of the three, only Mi-172 and EC-225 were
flight evaluated as EH 101 (AW-101) could not be evaluated in view of the

3
    Instrument Flight Rules are sets of regulations governing all aspects of civil aviation
    aircraft operations.
4
    EH-101 was the earlier name of AW-101 which was finally accepted




Report No.10 of 2013                                                              Page 6
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




vendor stating that the helicopter was certified to fly upto an altitude of 4572
metre (15000 feet) as against the
mandatory OR of 6000 metre.
Thereafter, Air HQ selected EC-225
helicopter after having conducted the
flight evaluation (November-December
2002). The flight evaluation report was
sent to MoD (May 2003) for approval.




                                                       EC-225 Helicopter

In June 2003, the Technical Manager (Air) in MoD asked Air HQ to reassess
the EC-225 and also obtain the views of PMO with regard to the suitability of
cabin height. In a meeting convened (19 November 2003) by the PMO, with
representatives of MoD, Air HQ and Special Protection Group (SPG), PMO
observed that framing of mandatory requirements had effectively led to a
single vendor situation and this problem would not have arisen if the PMO had
been consulted at the earlier stages. In the meeting, following options were
also considered.

      while the mandatory requirement for operational altitude be
       4500 metre, the higher flying ceiling limit of 6000 metre and a cabin
       height of 1.8 metre could be made desirable ORs; and

      the PMO/ SPG could be associated with the framing of parameters
       from the standpoint of VVIP convenience and security. The possibility
       of a team examining the existing shortlisted option could also be
       considered.

With these revisions, the PMO observed that several helicopters which
otherwise met all requirements but had been rejected due to the altitude
restrictions, would now come into the reckoning.

The PMO also in their communication to the Chief of the Air Staff expressed
concern (22 December 2003) that the framing of the mandatory requirements
for the new helicopters had effectively led to a single vendor situation and it




Report No.10 of 2013                                                       Page 7
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




was unfortunate that neither PMO nor SPG were consulted while framing the
mandatory requirements.

In order to remedy the situation, as also to avoid unnecessary delays, the PMO
suggested that the Air Chief and the Defence Secretary may jointly review the
matter to draw up realistic mandatory requirements satisfying operational,
security and convenience requirements of VVIPs and also set in motion a fast
track process for selection and acquisition of the replacement helicopters.
PMO and SPG could be involved in the first stage, i.e., at the stage of framing
of the mandatory requirements.

Air HQ, in their reply (June 2012) to the Statement of Case (July 2010) on the
issue of non-consultation with the PMO/SPG, however, stated that with regard
to the framing of mandatory ORs, the PMO was approached for certain ORs
regarding seating capacity in December 2001 and thereafter the ORs were
revised after necessary tailoring to suit the requirements of the IAF and the
PMO. Air HQ also stated that the PMO was aware that IAF was in the
process of procuring new helicopters as a replacement for VVIP Mi-8
helicopters.

On 01 March 2005, National Security Advisor (NSA) directed MoD/Air HQ
to revise the ORs in consultation with the PMO and to reissue the RFP. NSA
also directed that ORs should broadly conform to the parameters of Mi-8
operational specifications and should be drawn by taking into account
security, communication and cabin configuration to ensure comfort for VVIPs.
A single vendor situation should be avoided. Procurement process was to be
expedited.

Subsequently, Air HQ reframed the ORs stipulating, inter alia, a mandatory
service ceiling of 4500 metre vis-à-vis the earlier ceiling requirement of 6000
metre. For the first time, a requirement of cabin height of at least 1.8 metre
was introduced as a mandatory OR.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                   Page 8
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




5      Revised Service Qualitative Requirements (SQRs) led to
       restricted competition
Resultant single vendor situation

Paragraph 13 of the DPP-2006, stipulates that all Capital Acquisition shall be
based on SQRs drawn up in a comprehensive, structured and concrete manner.
The SQRs must express the user’s requirements in terms of functional
characteristics and its formulation must not prejudice the technical choices by
being narrow and tailor made. Our examination of the process of framing of
SQRs revealed that SQRs so revised led to a resultant single vendor situation
again, despite avoidance of such a situation having been consciously
addressed by the PMO in the meeting held on 19 November 2003. It was also
considered in the above meeting, besides lowering of altitude requirement, the
SQR relating to the cabin height of 1.8 metre could be made a desirable
operational requirement. Later on, this became an essential requirement and
thereby eliminated many of the competing vendors as discussed below.

Air HQ had already briefed the Defence Secretary in January 2004 that
requirement of service ceiling of 6000 metre was an inescapable operational
necessity; many areas in north and north east would be accessible only with
service ceiling of 6000 metre. Air HQ also pointed out that there had been
occasions where request for travel by VVIP to these areas had to be turned
down due to inability of the existing VVIP Mi-8 helicopters to undertake the
task. Air HQ considered the height of the cabin even upto 1.45 metre,
tapering to 1.39 metre at the rear as in the case of EC-225 acceptable in view
of the fact that flights undertaken by VVIPs in helicopters are generally of
short duration, rarely longer than 45 minutes. Air HQ, therefore, opined that
making cabin height of 1.8 metre a mandatory OR would lead to a single
vendor situation as in that case only EH-101 (AW-101) would comply with all
the SQRs.

Discussion of revision in the ORs was held in a meeting chaired by Deputy
Chief of Air Staff (DCAS) in Air HQ and attended by Joint Secretary &
Acquisition Manager (Air), Director SPG and other officers from Air HQ
(07 March 2005), wherein height altitude capability was reduced to
4500 metre. It was also recorded in the minutes of the meeting that cabin
height of at least 1.8 metre was added as a mandatory OR, based on directions




Report No.10 of 2013                                                   Page 9
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




given by the NSA and accepted by all members. Subsequently, in a meeting
convened by the Defence Secretary (9 May 2005) and attended by officers of
Air HQ, including DCAS to firm up the SQRs, it was decided inter alia to
lower the altitude requirement to 4500 metre and to make the cabin height of
at least 1.8 metre, as a mandatory SQR.

Ministry in its reply in respect of lowering of altitude requirement stated
(March 2013) that the PM and President rarely made visits to places involving
flying at an altitude beyond 4500 metre. Thus, it was decided to consider the
option to make the mandatory requirement for operational altitude 4500 metre.
Ministry further stated (April 2013) that the OR for service ceiling was
reduced to 4500 metre with the approval of Chief of the Air Staff (CAS)
(14 March 2005) to bring it in conformity with the service ceiling of Mi-8
helicopter i.e. 4500 metre.

Ministry’s reply is however not consistent with the assertion of Air HQ in
their brief to the Defence Secretary (January 2004) that requirement of service
ceiling of 6000 metre was an inescapable operational necessity for VVIP
helicopters. Ministry’s reply is also not consistent because with the service
ceiling of the existing Mi-8 at 4500 metre, Air HQ had earlier observed
(January 1994) its inability to operate safely at places elevated beyond 2000
metre. This reinforces Air HQ’s assertion (January 2004) that service ceiling
of 6000 metre was an inescapable requirement.




                                 AW-101 Helicopter


Report No.10 of 2013                                                  Page 10
                 Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




Ministry further stated (April 2013) that all the six OEMs to whom the RFP
was issued (September 2006) had the capability to provide helicopters having
cabin height of 1.8 metre or above. Hence, selection of AW-101 cannot be
attributed to the elimination of any competing OEM on account of not meeting
SQR of cabin height. Ministry further stated that mandatory SQR of cabin
height did not by itself lead to only one helicopter eventually emerging as
technically qualified in terms of RFP.

Ministry’s reply is not acceptable as at least one of the OEMs (European
Aeronautic Defence Space Company) to whom the RFP was issued in 2006
did not have a helicopter with required cabin height of 1.8 metre. The fact
remains that by making the cabin height 1.8 metre as a mandatory
requirement, the competition was restricted which led to resultant single
vendor situation again.

Thus, the purpose of reframing the SQRs i.e. avoidance of a resultant single
vendor situation, could not be met because even with the revision of SQRs,
the acquisition process again led to a resultant single vendor situation and
AW-101 of AgustaWestland was selected.

6       Acceptance of Necessity5

Air HQ revised (October 2005) the requirement of helicopters from 8 to 12
because of the insistence of SPG for addition of four helicopters in non-VVIP
configuration. Accordingly, a proposal for procurement of 12 helicopters at an
estimated cost of `793 crore in the AoN was submitted (January 2006) to the
RM. Quantity vetting was approved by the RM in March 2006.

Based on the revised SQRs, MoD issued (September 2006) a fresh RFP to six
vendors.




5
    In order to seek Acceptance of Necessity, the Service Headquarters would prepare a
    Statement of Case as per format at Appendix ‘A’ to the DPP -2006, justifying the
    procurement proposal.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                        Page 11
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




7      Issue of revised RFP to limited vendors

The DPP stipulates that wherever possible, keeping the security and other
relevant aspects in view, appropriate publicity may be given to the proposed
procurement with a view to generate maximum competition.

Though the purpose of issue of fresh RFP based on revised SQR was to ensure
that several helicopters which otherwise met all requirements earlier but had
been rejected due to the altitude restriction would come into the reckoning,
the revised RFP was issued only to six vendors as against 11 vendors to whom
the RFP was issued in 2002.

In reply to the audit observation, Ministry stated (March 2013) that the instant
proposal was for procurement of helicopters for a VVIP transportation role
where security considerations were paramount and the operational capabilities
and security features could not be put in the public domain. Further, OEMs
for such helicopters that have military certifications are limited in number and
thus RFPs for such equipment are generally issued to short-listed vendors who
are also vetted from the intelligence angle. Ministry further added that Air HQ
had sent letters to Air Attaches in France, Russia, UK and USA to ascertain
the type of helicopters employed in different countries for flying VVIP
communication tasks and Requests for Information (RFI) were also sent to
known OEMs through the respective Air Attaches, to ascertain the helicopters
that could be used for such role. Thereafter, six OEMs were identified which
were considered capable of supplying helicopters for VVIP communication
role and RFP was issued to all these six OEMs.

Ministry again stated (April 2013) that of the 11 OEMs to whom the RFP was
issued earlier, five were not included in the list of capable OEMs for issue of
RFP due to their non compliance of ORs in the earlier RFP. Ministry further
stated that the revision of SQRs broadened the vendor base, hence the
observation of audit is incorrect.

Ministry’s reply is not acceptable as exclusion of five OEMs in the RFP of
2006 on the ground of non-compliance of ORs in the RFP 2002 denied a fair
opportunity to these OEMs to participate in the RFP of 2006.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                   Page 12
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




The fact remains that despite the directions of the PMO to make the SQRs
broad based to increase competition, the SQRs were made more restrictive
which narrowed down the choices to limited range of helicopters being
capable of meeting the requirements of the VVIP fleet.

8      Evaluation

8.1    Evaluation of technical offers by TEC

A TEC constituted (February 2007) by Air HQ was required to evaluate the
technical bids received in response to RFPs. Paragraph 34 of DPP-2006 states
that a TEC will be constituted by the Service HQ (SHQ) for evaluation of the
technical bids received in response to RFPs, with reference to the SQRs, under
an officer from the SHQ. It would include, apart from the representatives of
the user service and maintenance agency, representatives of Quality
Assurance.

Based on the RFP issued, three bids, viz. Sikorsky (S-92) and AgustaWestland
(AW-101) and Rosoboronexport, Russia (Mi-172) were received. The offer of
Mi-172 helicopter was rejected on the grounds of non-submission of Earnest
Money Deposit (EMD) and absence of the pre-contract Integrity Pact (IP) as
required by the RFP.

Air HQ shortlisted the remaining two vendors. The TEC evaluated the
technical proposals of vendors i.e. Sikorsky (S-92) and AgustaWestland
(AW-101) and recommended the two for field evaluation. The report of the
TEC was accepted by the Director General (Acquisitions) in December 2007.
As per the DPP-2006, the time frame for technical evaluation and acceptance
by DG (Acquisitions) was four months, against which it took 10 months. The
delay of six months was on account of the fact that certain features such as
sound proofing (non-VVIP helicopters), product support after expiration of
warranty of the technical proposals in respect of Sikorsky, and provision of
active Missile Approach Warning System (MAWS) proposals submitted by
both the vendors did not conform to the RFP requirements and deviations for
the same were submitted to the RM for approval in December 2007 by the
DPB. Thereafter, it was sent to DG (Acquisitions) for acceptance of the TEC
report, as required under Paragraph 36 of DPP-2006.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                 Page 13
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




8.2    Field Evaluation Trials with deviations

Paragraph 38 of the DPP-2006 stipulates that field evaluation would normally
be conducted on ‘No Cost No Commitment’ (NCNC) basis. There may be
cases where trials are not visualised or trials need to be conducted abroad in
vendor premises. Where field evaluation is not feasible, there may be
possibility of conducting evaluation through computer simulation. In such
cases the exact scope of the trials shall be included in the Statement of Case
while seeking AoN.

Although, RFP of September 2006 had clearly stipulated the necessity of
sending the desired units of equipment to India for Field Evaluation in varying
climatic, altitude and terrain conditions on ‘No Cost No Commitment’ basis,
we observed that both the shortlisted vendors did not send their helicopters to
India. During technical discussions, both the vendors expressed difficulties in
providing their helicopters in India for the field evaluation and suggested that
the field evaluations be carried out abroad at the sites suggested by them.
Accordingly, IAF projected this requirement for consideration by the Defence
Procurement Board (DPB). Even though the DPB initially did not agree to the
field evaluation to be done abroad, eventually it recommended that trials be
carried out abroad which was approved by the RM in December 2007.
However, the RM stipulated that the trial process should be credible,
technically competent and above board for which trial directives were to be so
framed to give equal opportunity to both the bidders.

Ministry in its reply stated (March 2013) that keeping in view the long
processes and logistics involved in conducting field trials in India, it was
decided to conduct these trials abroad in a short time frame of 2 to 3 months.

Ministry’s reply is not acceptable as even though both the vendors had cited
difficulties, they were amenable to the proposal of bringing their helicopters in
India for field trials between April - August 2008. Thus, the flight evaluation
could have been carried out in actual ground and climatic conditions on the
same helicopter offered by the vendors as per the terms of RFP.

Ministry further stated (April 2013) that Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) had
written to Defence Secretary (11 October 2007) highlighting that the “flight
evaluation of already certified helicopters is not carried out in all possible




Report No.10 of 2013                                                    Page 14
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




terrain and environmental conditions. Certain sample test points are chosen
from the certified flight operations manual of the helicopter and flown to
ascertain the fidelity of the information in the performance charts. Carrying
out flight evaluation at OEM’s facilities offers many advantages in terms of
availability of flight test expertise, flight test instrumentation and flight test
data bank”. Chief of the Air Staff had recommended that delay on account of
field evaluation process to be undertaken in India, is not advisable. After
deliberations, DPB recommended field evaluation trials in respect of both the
helicopters at locations specified by the vendors. The recommendation of
DPB was submitted to the RM for approval whereupon RM questioned the
rationale for conducting field evaluation trials at vendor specified locations
instead of in India. The extract of the relevant note is reproduced below:

“The reasons adduced for conducting field evaluation trials at vendor
specified location instead of in India are not convincing enough. This is
particularly so when viewed against the background of cases like the
Eurocopter where the technical teams had certified the equipment but the
credibility of the trial process itself was thrown into question later. What is the
guarantee that fidelity and credibility of these trials will remain above board
when they do not take place within the country?”

On further assurance of Air HQ that the trial team was fully competent to
carry out the task assigned to it, the RM approved the recommendations of the
DPB.

We observed that if the advantages of the requirements in carrying out FET as
pointed out by CAS could be obtained only at the vendor’s site then these
requirements should have been firmed up at the SOC/RFP stage itself. We
further observed that the vendor had clarified to the FET team (January 2008)
that approved flight manual/graphs did not exist because the helicopter offered
by the company for the FET was still in its developmental phase, and therefore
the vendor could not offer the actual helicopter to the trial team. In view of
this deficiency the reasons given by the CAS for conducting FET abroad
lacked justification.

The FET of the helicopters were conducted in the UK (AW-101) and the USA
(S-92). In the FET conducted in the USA during January-February 2008,
M/s Sikorsky offered the same S-92 helicopter as mentioned in their technical




Report No.10 of 2013                                                      Page 15
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




offer. Although AgustaWestland had initially offered (February 2007) to
provide an AW-101 helicopter for FET, yet they finally offered only
representative helicopters, Civ-01 and Merlin MK-3A and a mock up of the
passenger cabin, stating that the helicopter offered by the vendor was still in
its developmental phase. The Trial Team, therefore, evaluated the
representative helicopters in the UK during January- February 2008.

Ministry stated (April 2013) that the contention of audit that AW-101 was in
developmental phase is not correct. The AW-101 helicopter that was offered
for field trials and thereafter contracted existed as a certified platform with
over 1,15,000 fleet hours at the time of the field trials.

Audit is unable to agree with the Ministry’s assertion as FET team in its
inspection report had clearly mentioned (January 2008) that AW-101 as
offered to the IAF was in a product developmental phase, therefore the FET
was carried out on a Merlin MK-3A (primarily for evaluation of avionics,
navigation systems and maintenance) and a company developmental
helicopter called the Civ-01(for other portions of the FET).

We also observed that even though a single trial directive was issued, Air HQ
allowed different methodologies for the trial evaluation of S-92 and AW-101,
in contravention of RM’s directions. Evaluating different aspects of equipment
on different platforms could not give the desired assurance that finally the
configured helicopter would meet the requirements of SQRs in the RFP.

Ministry in its reply (March and April 2013) stated that the methodology of
field evaluation that was common to both the vendors, involved assessing the
helicopter performance through actual flight tests over selected terrain and
environmental conditions abroad to validate the officially certified
performance graphs and thereafter use these graphs to check compliance with
the SQRs.

The fact remains that FET (a critical milestone in the acquisition process) was
conducted on representative helicopters of AgustaWestland abroad; and not on
the helicopter for which DPB approval had been specifically obtained. Audit
does not have reasonable assurance, based on the records made available,
whether the actual helicopter with its significant customization was certified
before delivery in India and whether the parameters that remained untested at




Report No.10 of 2013                                                  Page 16
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




the time of FET were subsequently found fully compliant post its delivery and
acceptance in India.

8.3    Staff Evaluation with deviations from laid down procedure

Paragraph 43 of DPP-2006 stipulates that based on the field evaluation carried
out by user services, the SHQ would carry out a staff evaluation and will
analyse the field evaluation results and shortlist the equipment recommended
for introduction into service. The staff evaluation report will be approved by
SHQ and forwarded to the Acquisition Wing for acceptance. In case no vendor
meets the SQRs in the field evaluation then the case would be foreclosed on
approval of DG (Acquisitions) and a fresh RFP issued after reformulating the
SQRs. However, waivers/ amendments to the SQRs can be sought only for
‘Make’ projects of Defence Research and Development Organisation /
Ordnance Factory Board/ Defence Public Sector Undertakings/ private
industry which were in the developmental stage. Also, in such cases approval
of the RM would be taken prior to the acceptance of the staff evaluation
report.

We observed that even though both the vendors were not found fully
compliant with SQRs in the FET carried out in January - February 2008, the
Staff Evaluation Report recommended the induction of the AW-101 helicopter
of AgustaWestland.

Ministry in its reply (March and April 2013) stated that the observation of
audit that both the vendors were not found compliant to ORs is not correct.
Ministry further stated that AW-101 of AgustaWestland was fully compliant
with the SQRs for VVIP version and its non-VVIP version was partially
compliant with two SQRs due to shortfall in service ceiling and Hover Out of
Ground Effect which could be operationally overcome. Therefore, the
proposal offered by AgustaWestland as a package was considered suitable for
induction and accepted by the RM as required under Paragraph 75 of
DPP-2006.

However, the Ministry’s reply is not convincing as non-VVIP version of
AW-101 was non-compliant with two SQRs after the FET which required the
approval of the RM. At the time of issuing RFP, there was no distinction in
compliance requirements of SQRs between VVIP and non-VVIP helicopters.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                 Page 17
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




As such partial compliance of SQRs in respect of non VVIP helicopters cannot
be construed as having been fully compliant with the parameters in the RFP.

Ministry also stated that Paragraph 43 of DPP-2006 was not attracted in the
instant case as it is applicable to situations where Staff Evaluation had
concluded that no vendor meets the SQRs. Approval of the RM was obtained
through DPB for partial compliance only in certain extreme atmospheric
conditions with full load of the non-VVIP AW-101 with respect to two SQRs
under Paragraph 75 of the DPP-2006.

 Ministry’s reply is not acceptable as both vendors were not fully compliant
with the SQRs. Further, in the instant case in contravention of Paragraph 43
of DPP-2006 approval of the RM for waivers/amendments to the SQR was
sought in the ‘Buy’ project while it was permissible in the ‘Make’ projects
only.

The fact remains that partial compliance of SQRs in respect of Non-VVIP
helicopter cannot be considered as fully compliant with parameters of RFP.
The partial compliance in the instant case constitutes a deviation under
Paragraph 43 of DPP-2006 for a ‘buy’ project.

9      Contract Negotiation Committee did not properly assess the
       reasonableness of price

Paragraph 47 of DPP-2006 prescribes the process of commercial negotiations,
wherever necessary, after Staff Evaluation Report has been accepted by the
DG (Acquisition) and the Technical Oversight Committee Report has been
accepted by the Defence Secretary, as applicable. The standard composition of
the CNC shall be as indicated at Appendix B of the DPP-2006. Any change in
the composition of the CNC may be effected with the approval of DG
(Acquisition). Where considered necessary, a Service officer or any officer
other than from the Acquisition Wing of MoD may be nominated as Chairman
of the CNC with the prior approval of the RM. The concerned organisations/
agencies should ensure that their representatives in the CNC have adequate
background and authority to take a decision without any need to refer back to
their organisation/agency. The CNC would carry out all processes from
opening of commercial bids till conclusion of contract. The sealed commercial
offers of the technically accepted vendors shall be opened by the CNC at a




Report No.10 of 2013                                                Page 18
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




predetermined date and time under intimation to vendors, permitting such
vendors or their authorised representatives to be present.

A CNC was constituted on 01 May 2008 with Joint Secretary and Acquisition
Manager (Air) as Chairman and Joint Director Air Staff Requirement
(JDASR) from Air HQ as Member Secretary with the representatives from
MoD and Air HQ as Members. Paragraph 51 of the DPP-2006 provides that
in case of procurement of new equipment on single vendor/resultant single
vendor basis, CNC should establish a benchmark and reasonableness of price
in an internal meeting before opening the commercial offer. Further, if the
price of the vendor is found to be within the benchmark fixed, in the internal
meeting, there should be no need to carry out any further price negotiations.
For the purpose of establishing benchmark price, the CNC set up a
Benchmarking Committee with Principal Director Air Staff Requirement as
Chairman and Director General Aeronautical Quality Assurance
representative, JD EngD, JD ASR as Members. The CNC held four internal
meetings before opening of the commercial bid. In its first meeting on 12 May
2008, the modalities of the benchmarking process for determination of
procurement were discussed. In the second meeting of 01 August 2008, the
CNC discussed the benchmarking of procurement cost as being worked out by
the Benchmarking Committee. In the third meeting of 01 September 2008, the
CNC examined the draft Benchmarking Report. In the fourth and final
internal meeting of CNC held on 02 September 2008, the Benchmarking
Committee submitted their final report which was accepted after deliberations.
Thereafter, the CNC also opened the commercial bid of the vendor on the
same day.

Our scrutiny of the records revealed that benchmarking of price was not done
on a realistic basis as can be seen from the ensuing paragraphs.

The Benchmarking Committee had determined the reasonableness of the quote
by relying on the basic price of AW-101 helicopter as 27 Million USD
(MUSD) per aircraft in the year 2000, as available on the internet. The
committee had further given cost increments of 2 MUSD for the new engines.
The committee also considered a figure of 15 per cent increment on the cost of
basic helicopter towards the associated development and certification cost,
which amounts to 4.4 MUSD. This brought the cost of the basic helicopter




Report No.10 of 2013                                                 Page 19
                 Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




including the developmental/certification costs to 33.4 MUSD. The cost of
33.4 MUSD was adjusted for inflation @ 3.5 per cent per annum from the
year 2000 to arrive at the basic cost of 47 MUSD to the base year of 2010 for
delivery. Besides, an amount of 20.4 MUSD was added towards additional
fitments/fixtures viz. Glass Cockpit and Self Protection Suite etc. which were
not included in the cost of the basic helicopter offered. With this, the cost of
the AW-101 helicopter (without the passenger cabin modification) was
benchmarked at 67.4 MUSD.

We did not get any evidence in support of the reasonableness of base price of
27 MUSD adopted by the CNC for the year 2000. Since the RFP was issued in
September 2006, there was no rationale for adopting the base price of 2000.
In contrast, we noticed that the basic price of AW-101 VIP helicopter was
18.2 MUSD in the year 2010 as seen from the internet.

The benchmarked cost as worked out by
the CNC was Euro 7276 million
(`4877.5 crore) as against the estimated
total project cost of `793 crore approved
by Ministry in January 2006. This was
more than six times the estimated cost.
Further, the offered cost of the vendor
was Euro 592 million (`3966 crore). This
was much below the benchmarked cost
of Euro 727 million (`4877.5 crore).
Thus, the benchmarked cost was higher
by 22.80 per cent.

Ministry in respect of estimation of cost stated (March 2013) that the figure of
`793 crore (inclusive of manpower cost worth `3 crore) was the ‘Rough Order
of Magnitude’ (ROM) cost estimated for basic helicopter along with spares,
GSE/GHE7 and the cost of infrastructure at the time of preparation of SoC in
2006. It further added that the cost of basic helicopter did not include other
elements like development and certification cost, cost of fitments and fixtures


6
    1 Euro = `67
7
    GSE/GHE – Ground Support Equipment/Ground Handling Equipment




Report No.10 of 2013                                                   Page 20
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




for VVIP transportation, Self Protection Suites etc. nor did it factor in
escalation taking into account the anticipated period of delivery.

Ministry’s reply is not acceptable as the offered price was more than six times
the estimated cost which indicates that Air HQ had not prepared proper
estimates of the requirement while submitting the case for approval of AoN.
Ministry of Finance (MoF) had also pointed out (July 2009) that the difference
between the final negotiated price and estimated cost at the time of AoN
appeared to be abnormally high.

We also observed that the benchmarked cost did not provide a realistic basis
for comparison with the offered cost of AW-101 helicopter.

In response to the Statement of Case issued by Audit (July 2010), Air HQ
stated (June 2012) that the benchmarking committee and the CNC took into
consideration realistically all the requirements that are specific to the VVIP
communication including VVIP furnishing, safety features and security
installation. The information used for benchmarking had necessarily to be
from open source as no western helicopter in the VVIP class had been
contracted by the GoI or any of its agencies. It further stated that it would be
erroneous and misleading to make comparison between helicopters without
taking into account their different capabilities, specifications, features,
operational roles and life cycle costs as well as the widely different design and
pricing philosophies that may be involved.

Ministry replied (April 2013) that the procurement case lacked a clear
reference base for comparison since there had been no previous procurement
of such helicopters by the IAF. The benchmarking was done by the CNC using
information from all available sources and the final benchmarked price was
arrived at in a rational and considered manner. The figure of USD 27 million
adopted by the Benchmarking Committee was taken from www.deagel.com.
Ministry also stated that out of seven contracts concluded across the globe
between 1991 and 2007, six contracts were signed between 1991 and 2001
while the seventh was signed in 2007. Hence, 2000 was adopted for purpose
of benchmarking and thereafter escalated as per the approved rate in the
Pricing Policy Review Committee.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                    Page 21
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




The reply of Ministry is not acceptable as Paragraph 15 of DPP-2006 specifies
that RFI should ask the vendor to provide all the elements which need to be
structured into the costing of the weapon / equipment system (including that of
a comprehensive maintenance / product support package) which will serve as
a guideline to formulate an all encompassing Commercial Offer format at the
stage of the RFP. We noticed that no such request has been made in
compliance of the above provision. This assumes greater significance in view
of the fact that the CNC has no clear reference base to arrive at a realistic cost.

Thus, despite the emphasis laid in Paragraph 51 of the DPP-2006 on
determination of reasonable price by CNC, for the purpose of benchmarking,
the same was not achieved.

10     Approval by Cabinet Committee on Security

Following the approval of CNC, the draft note to Cabinet Committee on
Security (CCS) was submitted (February 2009) by Ministry of Defence (MoD)
to Ministry of Finance (MoF) for comments/concurrence. MoF on 12 March
2009, sought clarifications which were responded to by MoD in March itself.
MoF sought further clarifications on 19 May 2009 which were responded to
by MoD in June 2009. On 20 July 2009, MoF stated that they were unable to
support the proposal in light of certain concerns raised by MoF, which were to
be addressed in the final Note to CCS.

We observed that the MoF should have either recommended, not
recommended or recommended with conditions the proposal as MoF provides
financial advice to CCS and Government.

MoD submitted (November 2009) their proposal to the CCS for obtaining
sanction for the procurement of the helicopters and associated items at the
negotiated cost of `3726.96 crore.

We observed that the CCS while according approval, had considered all the
issues which had the benefit of advice of the representatives of MoD and MoF
and had then taken a conscious decision (January 2010) which inter alia stated
that while the RFP for the present procurement was issued on 27 September
2006 and it has taken more than three years for the tendering process and field
evaluation to be completed, it would take another three years for the helicopter




Report No.10 of 2013                                                      Page 22
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




to be made available by the manufacturer. Further, the CCS also stated that if
the process of tender and field evaluation is to be repeated, the period involved
would be very long and not acceptable from the point of view of the VVIP
security.

11     Deviations from Defence Procurement Procedure

Paragraph 75 of DPP-2006 stipulates that any deviation from the prescribed
procedure will be put up to the RM through DPB for approval.

As per the provisions of Paragraph 31 of DPP-2006, after the issue of RFP, a
number of queries relating to the RFP may be raised by the vendors. It should
be ensured that all the queries are answered in an acceptable time frame so that
the vendors are able to submit their techno-commercial offers on due date. The
clarifications should be given in writing to all the vendors by the technical
managers. However, it should be ensured that the parameters of RFP (SQRs)
should not be changed/ amended at this stage. Similarly, Paragraph 35 of
DPP-2006 stipulates that a technical offer once submitted should not be
materially changed subsequently.

Ministry of Finance amongst other observations on the process of procurement
had also observed (July 2009) that during the procurement process MoD had
sought approval for eight deviations from RFP/DPP under Paragraph 75 of the
DPP by the RM as mentioned below.

      seeking additional commercial quotation from both vendors;
      acceptance of different warranty stipulation;
      acceptance of partial compliance of two ORs by AW-101 helicopter;
      completion of helicopter delivery in 39 months instead of 36 months;
      acceptance of option clause for three years instead of five years;
      incorporation of rear Airstairs in the four non-VIP helicopters;
      requirement of additional items such as TCAS-II, EGPWS and
       Lifeport Medevac system; and
      deletion of active MAWS.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                      Page 23
              Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




We observed that:
     The RFP required a warranty of 3 years/900 hours “whichever is later”.
      The term “whichever is later” was not acceptable to both the
      shortlisted vendors. Hence, the term “whichever is later” was changed
      to “whichever is earlier”. Ministry stated in its reply (March 2013)
      that approval of the RM was obtained for this deviation on the ground
      that helicopters were practically not expected to fly more than 900
      hours in the first three years. The deviation in the warranty claim is in
      contravention of the Policy Page of Communication Squadron of Air
      HQ which inter alia specifies that a helicopter is required to fly 540
      hours per year and thus a total of 1620 flying hours in three years. We
      also observed that MoD had provided for purchase spares and
      associated equipment from the vendor in the contract on the basis of
      annual flying task of 540 hours per year. Thus by accepting warranty
      only for 900 flying hours/three years ‘whichever is earlier’, flying risk
      of 720 hours for spares was not covered under the warranty for each
      helicopter. By including the term “whichever is earlier” MoD has
      diluted the warranty clause to its disadvantage.
      Ministry stated (April 2013) that change in requirement was accepted
      as the term “whichever is later” was open ended and the warranty limit
      of three years would occur first. It further stated that spares would be
      consumed as per the actual utilisation of the helicopters.
      The reply is not acceptable as, if the term “whichever is later” was
      open ended, the same should not have been included in the RFP in the
      first place.

     The RFP stipulated that the buyer would have the option to place a
      separate order before 5 years from the contract effective date limited to
      50 per cent of the helicopter and spares etc. as per the costs set out in
      the contract. Ministry stated in its reply (March 2013) that during the
      discussion with the CNC, the vendor stated that the AW-101 VVIP
      helicopter was a limited production version and it was not possible for
      them to have the option clause as required by the RFP. The vendor
      had insisted in view of the prevailing adverse world economic situation
      since mid 2008 and extension of their commercial quote for another




Report No.10 of 2013                                                  Page 24
                 Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




        two years, applicability of option clause may be reduced to 3 years
        only. The requirement was accepted by the CNC. We observed that
        while the reduction in option period from 5 to 3 years was in favour of
        the vendor, the very inclusion of the clause in the RFP was avoidable
        since there was no requirement for additional helicopters for another
        five years. Further, MoF in response to MoD’s reply had also
        observed (July 2009) that the financial load of option clause even for 3
        years appeared to be infructuous.
        Ministry stated (April 2013) that the option clause is a standard term of
        the contract under the DPP-2006 and hence was included. While
        procurement of additional helicopters was unlikely, there could be
        possibility of purchase of additional spares/equipment based on
        operating experience.
        The reply is not acceptable as MoD had already provided for purchase
        of spares and associated equipment from the vendor in the contract on
        the basis of annual flying task of 540 hours per year. Besides, in view
        of Ministry’s own admission of the fact that procurement of additional
        helicopters would be unlikely, the option clause in the contract was
        avoidable.
       The RFP included a SQR of a ‘dual colour active Missile Approach
        Warning System, (MAWS). However, M/s AgustaWestland offered
        Passive MAWS for the helicopter in the technical bid later with the
        approval of DPB. The vendor submitted additional commercial quote
        of Euro 20.90 Million for Active MAWS for 12 helicopters which was
        negotiated to Euro 16.98 Million by the CNC. During the technical
        level discussion at Air HQ the vendor brought out that the Passive
        MAWS was essential equipment as the DIRCM8 can be integrated only
        with Passive MAWS and not with Active MAWS. Therefore, the
        Active MAWS may not be necessary. Consequently, CNC deleted the
        requirement from the proposal and deviation to this SQR was accorded
        by the RM. Ministry stated (March 2013) that the deviation did not
        affect the basic character/profile of the proposal or disturb the level
        playing field and ultimate result was a procurement that complied with
        the stipulation of the RFP. We observed that technical suitability of

8
    DIRCM – Directed Infra Red Counter Measures




Report No.10 of 2013                                                    Page 25
                  Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




         Active MAWS and consequently its integration with other Electronic
         Warfare equipment was not adequately addressed by the IAF while
         finalising the SQRs for the helicopter which had prolonged the
         negotiation period, first in deliberation for inclusion and later due to
         deletion of Active MAWS requirement.

The intention of Paragraph 75 appears that it is to be invoked in exceptional
circumstances for certain contingencies or exigencies which may have arisen
subsequent to the issue of the RFP. In this case, the frequent exercise of this
procedure are counter to the principal aim with which the paragraph has been
incorporated in the DPP-2006. These deviations obtained in the procurement
process were also commented upon (July 2009) by MoF.

12       Excess procurement of helicopters

In August 1999, IAF had proposed for acquisition of eight helicopters (five in
VIP configuration and three in Non-VIP configuration) with a view to
maintain six serviceable helicopters. This was followed up by the issue of a
RFP in March 2002. IAF/MoD was of the view that eight helicopters would
meet the requirement if Mi-8 type helicopters were used for the VVIP
movement. Subsequently, at the insistence of SPG, the requirement was
increased (October 2005) to 12 helicopters (eight in VIP configuration and
four in Non-VIP configuration) and AoN for procurement of 12 helicopters
was accorded in January 2006. This resulted in increase in contract cost which
was concluded in February 2010 by `1240 crore.

Ministry stated (March 2013) that in order to meet the operational and security
requirements projected by SPG, the quantity of helicopters was increased from
8 to 12. The requirement projected by SPG specified that ‘X’ number of
similar type helicopters were deployed for a particular movement of VVIP.
Ministry also emphasized that the number of helicopters that can be used for
carrying VVIPs has remained eight in number.

We observed that the past trend of low utilisation levels (29 per cent approx)
over a period of 11 years (1999-2010) of the existing fleet of eight helicopters
by VVIPs and rest of the flying for the training and use by the OEPs9 does not

9
     OEPs – Other Entitled Persons




Report No.10 of 2013                                                    Page 26
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




lend credence to Ministry’s justification for additional procurement of
helicopters. This apprehension was also expressed by the RM.

Ministry further stated (April 2013) that the reasons for adding four
helicopters for non-VVIP version cannot be linked to the utilisation level of
the helicopters in the Communication Squadron.

The reply of Ministry is not acceptable as the Communication Squadron was
managing the service of air transportation for VVIPs with the fleet of eight
Mi-8 helicopters till present. As such, additional procurement of four
helicopters costing `1240 crore was avoidable.

13     Delay in procurement

The DPP-2006 has indicated the time frame for each activity at Paragraph 74
Chapter- I, Appendix C to avoid delays in procurement. We observed delay in
some of the activities with reference to the prescribed time schedule as given
in Annexure-I.

We also observed that there were significant delays in finalization of
procurement even though it was directed by the PMO to process the
acquisition on fast track. Even the CCS observed that IAF/MoD had taken
more than three years for the tendering process and field evaluation since the
issue of revised RFP (September 2006). Such delays, despite the fact that the
procurement process had been initiated in 1999, lacked justification.

Accepting the facts, Ministry stated in its reply (March 2013) that there was a
delay as total time taken was 10 years and six months upto finalisation of the
contract. It also stated that the TTL of the helicopter has now been extended
upto 2014.

14     Non-compliance with Offset Provisions

Paragraph 22 of DPP-2006, inter alia, makes it obligatory for inclusion of an
offset clause in all contracts where indicative cost is above `300 crore and the
schemes are categorized as ‘Buy (Global)’ involving outright purchase from
foreign / Indian vendors. The DPP prescribes a minimum of 30 per cent of the
indicative cost of acquisition as offset obligation.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                   Page 27
                 Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




For the purpose of defence purchases made under the DPP-2006, offset
obligations shall be discharged directly by any combination of the following
methods:

      (a) Direct purchase of, or executing export orders for, defence products
          and components manufactured by, or services provided by, Indian
          defence industries, i.e., Defence Public Sector Undertakings, the
          Ordnance Factory Board, and any private defence industry
          manufacturing these products or components under an industrial
          licence granted for such manufacture. For the purpose of defence
          offset, “services” will mean maintenance, overhaul, upgradation, life
          extension, engineering, design, testing, defence related software or
          quality assurance services.

      (b) Direct foreign investment in Indian defence industries for industrial
          infrastructure for services, co-development, joint ventures and
          co-production of defence products.

      (c) Direct foreign investment in Indian organisations engaged in research
          in defence R&D as certified by Defence Offset Facilitation Agency
          (DOFA).

Paragraph 22 ‘Appendix D’ of DPP-2006 states inter alia that the offset
obligations are to be fulfilled coterminous within the period of the main
contract. The vendor has to submit the year-wise break up in offset
programme regarding fulfillment of the offset obligation.

AgustaWestland had identified seven programmes which were to be
completed as part of the offset contract. During scrutiny of the offset contract
of AgustaWestland, we observed that offsets were allowed which were not
compliant with the DPP provisions as discussed below:

(i)      Ineligible offset – Creation of civil infrastructure
As per programme Sl.No.1 of the offset contract, AgustaWestland has to
establish a VVIP support centre to support the IAF for VVIP operation in
Delhi through Taneja Aerospace and Aviation Company, an Indian Offset




Report No.10 of 2013                                                   Page 28
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




Partner (IOP) as a direct foreign investment. This package inter alia included,
build or refurbishment of hangars, stores and office areas as a Direct Foreign
Investment (DFI) in infrastructure. As per DPP-2006, construction of civil
infrastructure was not a valid offset for discharge of offset obligation. In reply
to an audit query (October 2011), Air HQ stated (December 2011) that if the
vendor claims offset credit for civil infrastructure, this would not be allowed
during vetting of quarterly reports. The reply does not address the issue as to
how in the absence of an amendment to the contract, the deficit in discharge of
offsets would be met, if the claim is disallowed. The acceptance of an
inadmissible item for fulfillment of offset obligation and its inclusion in the
contract was in deviation of the DPP-2006.
Ministry stated (April 2013) that vendor has submitted (September 2012) a
proposal seeking contract amendment that deletes the construction of civil
infrastructure and has included only defence related activities.
However, Ministry’s reply is silent whether the proposal of the vendor has
been accepted and any amendment to the contract is issued. The fact remains
that an inadmissible item was included in the offset contract.

(ii)   Inclusion of already completed work in the offset contract
Programme Sl. No. 3 of the offset contract catered for Engineering Design
services to be provided through an IOP, IDS Infotech. As per original TEC
report of March 2008, DOFA opined that this did not constitute an offset
programme under the offset policy unless the same is treated as export orders.
Therefore, DOFA had sought necessary clarification on this issue. It was
clarified by AgustaWestland that the current package of work with the IDS
Infotech was a discrete package of work involving the translation of current
drawings into a CATIA format associated with the AW-129 helicopter. To that
extent AgustaWestland proposed that this current programme of work with
IDS Infotech be considered as qualifying as an offset credit against the
engineering design service project. The proposal was accepted by Air HQ,
which limited the offset credit to the direct purchase/executing export orders
for services. However, in the Technical Offset Evaluation Committee (TOEC)
report of August 2008, the offset obligation requirement included only the size




Report No.10 of 2013                                                     Page 29
               Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




of initial work package of 10,000 man-hours. We observed that the details
regarding type of services and export orders to be executed by IDS Infotech
was not clearly indicated in the offset contract.

As per Quarterly Progress Report (QPR) for August 2012, the work identified
under this project with IDS Infotech had been placed and completed prior to
award (February 2010) of the contract. Since offset credit was not admissible
for the same, AgustaWestland requested (August 2012) an amendment in the
contract to delete IDS Infotech as IOP and requested for adding a new IOP.
Till August 2012, the progress of offset under this project was Nil.

AgustaWestland also gave an year-wise break up of work for the offset
programme from 2011 to 2014 even though the work had been completed well
before the conclusion of the contract. Thus, the inclusion of this offset
programme in the contract was inadmissible and was against the provisions of
the DPP-2006.

Ministry stated (April 2013) that effective date of the main supply contract
was 08 February 2010 and offset credit would be admissible only for
purchases done after this date. Ministry also stated that the vendor had sought
(September 2012) contract amendment to combine offset programmes at
Sl. No.2 and 3 and to suitably amend the work package.

However, Ministry’s reply is silent as to why already completed works were
accepted and included in the contract. Also, Ministry has not offered its
comments on the issue of ambiguity in the type of services and type of export
orders to be executed by M/s IDS Infotech (IOP).

(iii)   Inclusion of project unlikely to be completed within the contract
        period
As per programme Sl. No. 7 of the offset contract, there is a provision for
manufacture and repair of helicopter sub-assemblies and components through
IOPs viz. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, Taneja Aerospace and Aviation
Company, Dynamatic Technologies Ltd., Pranita Engineering Solutions and
Sanghvi Aerospace (Private) Ltd at a cost of 22.28 million Euro which pertain
to future Lynx helicopter packages of AgustaWestland. Lynx helicopter is




Report No.10 of 2013                                                  Page 30
                 Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




neither available with IAF nor with the Indian civil aviation. Since this is a
futuristic project, the possibility of discharge of offset obligations within the
period of contract is doubtful. Besides, of the five IOPs, four10 did not have
industrial license for the manufacture of defence products at the time of
contract. In reply to an audit observation (October 2011) Air HQ stated
(December 2011) that IAF had no plan to induct Lynx helicopter in future.
The project was not linked to indigenous demand and would result in true
capability building. Air HQ also stated that companies were requested to apply
for appropriate licenses.
The reply is not acceptable because till August 2012 the progress in discharge
of offset obligation was Nil and therefore, the possibility of completion of
project within the period of main contract is unlikely. This is even more so
because AgustaWestland had also requested (August 2012) through a contract
amendment to add one more company Merlinhawk as additional IOP against
this project after deleting Sanghvi Aerospace (Private) Ltd. Further, without
an industrial license for manufacture of defence products, these offset partners
should not have been selected.
Ministry stated (April 2013) that TOEC was aware that these IOPs were not
having industrial license for manufacture of defence products. Ministry also
stated that the vendor has confirmed (March 2012) that out of five IOPs, four
have obtained the requisite production licence and the Sanghvi Aerospace
Pvt. Ltd, which did not have the requisite licence, has been deleted from IOP.
It further added that the responsibility to complete the project in time lies with
the vendor and in case he failed to do so, the penalties would be imposed as
per the provisions of the offset contract.
The reply is not acceptable as these IOPs did not have the requisite license at
the time of acceptance of offset contract. Besides, offset obligations have
remained unfulfilled upto August 2012, Ministry in its reply has also not
indicated whether the process of imposition of penalty on the vendor has been
initiated.


10
     Taneja Aerospace and Aviation Company, Dynamatic Technologies Ltd., Pranita
     Engineering solutions and Sanghvi Aerospace (Private) Ltd




Report No.10 of 2013                                                     Page 31
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




15     Conclusion
The acquisition process for the VVIP helicopters had to resort to several
deviations from the laid down procedures. The EH-101 helicopter (later
renamed as AW-101 of AgustaWestland) could not be field evaluated in 2002
as it was certified to fly upto an altitude of 4572 metre only as against the
mandatory altitude requirement of 6000 metre stipulated in the RFP. The
procurement process was closed in 2003 by the MoD since the PMO had
observed that the SQRs so framed had resulted in a single vendor situation.
Subsequently, the SQRs were reframed in 2006 with an objective to broad
base the competition and to avoid a resultant single vendor situation. In the
revised RFP of 2006, the mandatory SQR of altitude requirement was reduced
to 4500 metre and a cabin height of at least 1.8 metre was introduced. While
the mandatory requirement of minimum cabin height reduced the competition,
the lowering of altitude requirement was against the inescapable operational
requirement of 6000 metre. Even with the revision of the SQRs, the
acquisition process again led to a resultant single vendor situation in 2010 and
AW-101 AgustaWestland was selected.
As the acquisition process was inordinately delayed, IAF continued to face
operational disadvantage on account of use of ageing helicopters. A critical
requirement of replacement of ageing fleet of Mi-8 helicopters could not be
fulfilled even after thirteen years of initiation of the acquisition process, due to
failure of MoD/IAF to devise realistic SQRs.
Evaluation of helicopters following different methodologies could not give the
desired assurance, especially in the light of the RM’s directives to provide
equal opportunity to shortlisted vendors for field trials. Field Evaluation Trial
(FET) was conducted abroad on the representative helicopters of
AgustaWestland and not on the actual helicopter (AW-101) contracted. The
contracted helicopter was still in its developmental phase, as stated by the
vendor. Thus, the recommendation and assurance given by Chief of the Air
Staff (October 2007) to conduct FET abroad lacked justification.
While the intention of Paragraph 75 appears that it is to be invoked in
exceptional circumstances for certain contingencies or exigencies which may
have arisen subsequent to the issue of the RFP, in this case the frequent
exercise of this procedure are counter to the principal aim with which the
paragraph has been incorporated in the DPP-2006.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                       Page 32
                Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




The benchmarked cost adopted by CNC was unreasonably high compared to
the offered cost. Hence it provided no realistic basis for obtaining an assurance
about the reasonableness of cost of procurement of AW-101 helicopters. There
were also violations of DPP in respect of fulfillment of offset obligations.




New Delhi                                        (RAJIV KUMAR PANDEY)
Dated:                                            Principal Director of Audit
                                                           Air Force




                                Countersigned




New Delhi                                           (VINOD RAI)
Dated:                            Comptroller and Auditor General of India




Report No.10 of 2013                                                    Page 33
                  Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




                                     ANNEXURE -I

           TIME TAKEN FOR PROCUREMENT ACTIVITIES


Sl.             Activity              Prescribed Time as per    Actual Time Taken
No.                                         DPP-2006
                                       Time       Cumulative     Time     Cumulative
                                     (months)                  (months)
1.    Acceptance of Necessity            1             1           1          1
      (AoN)
2.    Request for Proposals             4             5          13          14
      (RFP)
3.    Technical Evaluation up
      to                                4             9          10          24
      acceptance by DG
      (Acquisition).

4.    Trials.                          6-12         15-21         2          26

      Field    trials    /DGQA/
      Maintainability       trials
      including receipt of trial
      report, preparation and
      approval        of    Staff
      evaluation at Service HQ.

5.    Staff Evaluations.                1           16-22         2          28

      Examination by Technical
      Manager and acceptance
      of Staff Evaluation by DG
      (Acq).

6.    Technical       Oversight         1           17-23         1          29
      Committee (For cases
      over `300 crore).

7     Commercial Negotiation           6-11         23-34        20          49
      Committee (CNC) up to
      signing of contract.

8     Total maximum          time                    34          49          49
      permitted/ taken.




Report No.10 of 2013                                                       Page 34
                     Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




                              Chronology of Events

Sl             Date                                     Event
No.
 1    August 1999              Air HQ proposed the replacement of six authorized
                               VIP helicopters(Total Technical Life ‘TTL’ of 20
                               years for VIP flying of these helicopters was to
                               expire in year 2008) by eight helicopters on grounds
                               of maintenance requirement and technical
                               inadequacy of helicopters for VIP flying.

 2    August 2000              In principle approval for replacement (cost above
                               `50 crore) was accorded by the Raksha Mantri
                               (RM).

 3    April 2001               The flight evaluation of Mi-172 helicopter in Russia
                               and EC-225 helicopter in France was carried out by
                               IAF vis-à-vis tentative ORs.

 4    August 2001              Tentative ORs revised.

 5    January/February 2002    ORs finalized before issue of RFP.

 6    20 March 2002            A global request for proposal (RFP) issued to eleven
                               vendors.

 7    10 June 2002             Technical proposal opened of four vendors who had
                               responded to the RFP.

 8    July 2002                The Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) short
                               listed three helicopters i.e. Mi-172(M/s Kazan,
                               Russia), EC-225 (M/s Eurocopter, France) &
                               EH-101(AW-101)

 9    November - December The flight evaluation of Mi-172 & EC-225 was
      2002                carried out. The flight evaluation of EH-101
                          (AW-101) could not be done because the helicopter
                          was not certified for an altitude of 6000 metre, a
                          mandatory operational requirement (OR).




      Report No.10 of 2013                                              Page 35
                    Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




10   May 2003                The flight evaluation report was submitted. EC-225
                             was found worthy of acquisition.

11   November 2003           Prime Minister Office (PMO)’s comments were
                             received on the adequacy of cabin height of EC-225
                             ranging between 1.39 & 1.45 metre.

12   December 2003           The PMO observed that framing of mandatory ORs
                             have effectively led the acquisition into a single
                             vendor situation.

13   March 2005              National Security Advisor (NSA) directed MoD/Air
                             HQ to revise the ORs in consultation with PMO &
                             re-issue the RFP. It was also decided that ORs
                             should broadly conform to the parametres of Mi-8
                             Operational specifications and to be drawn by
                             taking into account the security, communication, &
                             cabin configuration to ensure comfort for VIPs and
                             a single vendor situation be avoided.

14   07 March 2005           Revised ORs stipulated, inter alia, a mandatory
                             altitude ceiling of 4500 metre and cabin height of
                             1.8 metre.

15   January 2006            Acceptance of Necessity (AoN) for replacement of
                             the existing fleet by twelve helicopters (8 in VIP & 4
                             in non-VIP configuration) at `793 crore was granted
                             by the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) on the
                             ground that hitherto additional helicopters from IAF
                             were possible as VIP helicopter used to be Mi-8.

16   March 2006              The quantity of helicopters proposed                for
                             procurement was vetted by the RM.

17   27 September 2006       RFP was issued to six vendors.

18   12 February 2007        Technical proposal of received three bids opened.




     Report No.10 of 2013                                               Page 36
                   Acquisition of helicopters for VVIPs




19   12 February 2007          The technical proposal opened. Out of the three
                               vendors, the proposal of M/s Rosoboronexport was
                               rejected by MoD for non-submission of Earnest
                               Money Deposit (EMD) and Integrity Pact required
                               in terms of the RFP. Technical Evaluation
                               Committee (TEC) convened.

20   16 August 2007            TEC recommended the remaining two vendors
                               M/s Sikorsky (S-92) & M/s AW (AW-101) for Field
                               Evaluation Trials (FET).

21   16 January 2008 to 07 The FET of the helicopters was carried out in UK &
     February 2008         USA.

22   April 2008                The Staff Evaluation based on the FET Report
                               recommended induction of AW-101 helicopter.

23   01 May 2008               The CNC was constituted.

24   02 September 2008         The commercial offer of M/s AW was opened (offer
                               cost Euro 592.032 million).

25   04 February 2009          The CNC recommended conclusion of the contract
                               at negotiated price of Euro 556.262 million
                               (`3726.96 crore @ `67 per Euro) inclusive of a cost
                               of Euro 10.21 million for the additional equipment
                               of TCAS-II (Traffic Collision & Avoidance
                               System), EGPWS (Enhanced Ground Proximity
                               Warning System) & Lifeport.

26   27 January 2010           The CCS approved the proposal with observations.

27   08 February 2010          Ministry of Defence (MoD) concluded a contract
                               with M/s AW for the supply of 12 AW-101
                               VIP/Non-VIP helicopters at an aggregated price of
                               Euro 556.262 million (`3726.96 crore @ `67
                               per Euro).

28   November      2012     - Delivery of three helicopters.
     February 2013




     Report No.10 of 2013                                              Page 37
