                          $~
                          *      IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
                                                             Judgment delivered on: 22.05.2025
                          +      BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024
                                 CHRISTIAN JAMES MICHEL                            .....Petitioner
                                                    Through:     Mr. Aljo K. Joseph, Mr.
                                                                 Vishnu Shankar, Mr. Sriram P,
                                                                 Mr. Sheikh Mohsin, Advocates

                                                    versus

                                 DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT                     .....Respondent
                                                    Through:     Mr. Zoheb Hossain, Special
                                                                 Counsel for ED with Mr.
                                                                 Vivek Gurnani, Panel Counsel
                                                                 for ED with Mr. Kartik
                                                                 Sabharwal,    Ms.     Pranjal
                                                                 Tripathi and     Mr.
                                                                 Kanishk Maurya, Advocates.

                          CORAM:
                          HON'BLE DR. JUSTICE SWARANA KANTA SHARMA
                                                      JUDGMENT
                          DR. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
                          CRL.M.A. 8942/2025(modification in bail condition)
                          1.     By way of this application, the applicant seeks modification of
                          order dated 04.03.2025 passed by this Court in the captioned bail
                          application, vide which the applicant herein was granted regular bail
                          in case arising out of ECIR No. DLZO/15/2014/AD(VM) 7551-7584,
                          dated 03.07.2014, recorded for offence under Sections 3 and 4 of the



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                       Page 1 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 [hereafter „PMLA‟].

                          2.     The concluding paragraph of the order dated 04.03.2025 is set
                          out below:

                                   “....36. In view of the above discussion, considering the
                                   period of incarceration of about six years and two months
                                   undergone by the applicant, and in view of the fact that he
                                   has also been granted bail in the case pertaining to predicate
                                   offence by the Hon‟ble Supreme Court on the ground that the
                                   investigation has not been completed and the trial has not
                                   even begun, and considering that there seems to be no
                                   possibility of trial in this case concluding too within the
                                   remaining duration of the maximum prescribed sentence
                                   under Section 4 of PMLA, inasmuch as the same has not
                                   even begun as of now, this Court is inclined to grant regular
                                   bail to the present applicant, on furnishing a personal bond
                                   and surety in the sum of ₹5,00,000/- each and on
                                   surrendering the passport before the learned Trial Court,
                                   which be not released without permission of this Court,
                                   considering that investigation qua the present applicant is still
                                   pending. The rest of the conditions be imposed by the learned
                                   Special Court, since as per order of the Hon‟ble Apex Court,
                                   the learned Trial Court has been directed to impose
                                   conditions as deemed appropriate while granting bail in
                                   predicate offence.
                                   37. Taking into account the directions in order dated
                                   18.02.2025 of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court, and lest any order
                                   of this Court is in conflict with order of Supreme court and
                                   following the judicial discipline, it is directed that the DoE
                                   shall be at liberty to request the concerned Court for
                                   imposing necessary/ stringent conditions before releasing the
                                   applicant on bail, considering the previous conduct of the
                                   applicant and the fact that he was extradited to India. It is also
                                   clarified that the applicant will extend all co-operation in the
                                   investigation (if required) and during the trial, as and when
                                   the same would commence....”

                          3.     Evidently, this Court had imposed only the following
                          conditions upon the applicant, subject to which he was granted bail:



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                                   Page 2 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          (i)    First, that he shall furnish a personal bond as well as a surety
                          in the sum of ₹5,00,000/- each.
                          (ii)   Second, that he shall surrender his passport before the learned
                          Trial Court, which be not released without permission of this Court.

                          4.     The rest of the conditions were to be imposed by the learned
                          Trial Court, after considering the submissions of the Directorate of
                          Enforcement [hereafter „DoE‟] in this regard.

                          5.     The applicant has now sought modification of both the
                          conditions imposed by this Court.

                          6.     The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant
                          contends that the first condition i.e. requiring the applicant to furnish,
                          alongwith his personal bond – a surety – be modified or waived since
                          the applicant, who is a foreign national, has no person, family or
                          friend in India who would stand surety for him. Thus, given his lack
                          of personal ties to the country, it is impossible for him to provide a
                          surety from India.

                          7.     The learned counsel for the applicant also submits that the
                          second condition of surrendering his passport be also waived off. In
                          this regard, it is contended that the applicant‟s old passport has
                          expired, and therefore, it is not possible for the applicant to comply
                          with the said condition, since he would need to retain the passport for
                          the renewal process. It is also submitted that the process for obtaining
                          a new passport will take a minimum of four to eight weeks, as per the
                          guidelines available on the official website of HMPO (His Majesty‟s



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                          Page 3 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          Passport Office), and thus, satisfying this condition is not possible as
                          of now.

                          8.     Lastly, it is submitted that the imposition of such onerous and
                          practically impossible conditions would defeat the very purpose of
                          bail and violate the applicant‟s fundamental right under Article 21 of
                          the Indian Constitution. It is contended that the applicant has already
                          undergone over 6 years and 4 months of incarceration in India, apart
                          from 130 days in custody in the UAE prior to his extradition. The
                          maximum sentence, if convicted, can be seven years, yet the trial has
                          not even commenced. It is argued that in such circumstances,
                          continuing to impose bail conditions, which the applicant cannot
                          fulfil, would serve no legitimate purpose and would rather amount to
                          a denial of liberty.

                          9.     During the course of proceedings before this Court, the
                          concerned Jail Superintendent was directed to produce the applicant
                          through video-conferencing from the concerned Jail. The applicant
                          herein had appeared and submitted that he had preferred the present
                          application, through his counsel, as he has no one in India who can
                          stand as a surety for him.

                          10.    Conversely, the learned Special Counsel appearing for the DoE
                          has opposed the present application and contended that insofar as the
                          first condition i.e. furnishing a personal bond and surety in the sum of
                          ₹5,00,000/- is concerned, the applicant herein is a foreign national
                          and has no roots in India and if no local surety is furnished by the



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                        Page 4 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          applicant as per the conditions imposed by this Court, then there is no
                          way to ensure his presence in India and he can easily flee the country.
                          Considering the conduct of the applicant in the past, it will be
                          difficult to secure his presence for the purpose of the trial, if the
                          condition of surety is waived off by this Court. It is also stated that
                          this prayer of the applicant is directly contrary to Section 441(1) of
                          Cr.P.C.

                          11.    The learned Special Counsel further submits that as regards the
                          condition of surrendering passport before the learned Trial Court, the
                          applicant can undertake the process of renewal of his passport, and
                          this Court may direct the Embassy that once the passport is renewed,
                          the same be handed over to the investigating officer or be forwarded
                          directly to the learned Trial Court to ensure that the same is not
                          misused. Without prejudice to this contention, it is argued that the
                          applicant herein is duty bound to deposit his present passport even
                          though he claims that the same is expired. On these grounds, it is
                          prayed that the present application be dismissed.

                          12.    This Court has heard arguments addressed by the learned
                          counsel appearing for either side, and has perused the material placed
                          on record.

                          13.    This Court shall first address the contention of the applicant –
                          that the condition requiring him to surrender his passport be waived,
                          as his existing passport has expired and he needs to retain it for the
                          renewal process. It is his case that as per the official guidelines of



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                       Page 5 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          HMPO, the issuance of a new passport may take between four to
                          eight weeks, and therefore, compliance with the said condition is not
                          presently feasible.

                          14.    In this regard, it shall be relevant to take note of the
                          proceedings which have taken place in this case earlier. The Hon‟ble
                          Supreme Court had granted regular bail to the present applicant, vide
                          order dated 18.02.2025, in the connected case/RC registered by the
                          CBI. While granting bail, it was directed as under:

                                    “ ......we are inclined to grant bail to the petitioner on such
                                    terms and conditions as may be determined by the Trial Court
                                    in connection with FIR/RC No.RC-217-2013-A0003 dated
                                    12.03.2013.
                                        The CBI will make appropriate request before the Trial
                                    Court for imposing necessary conditions before releasing the
                                    petitioner on bail…”


                          15.    Pursuant to the above order, the CBI had moved an application
                          seeking to place on record its request to impose appropriate
                          conditions on the applicant herein for his release on bail.

                          16.    In the meantime, this Court had granted regular bail to the
                          applicant on 04.03.2025 in case arising out of the present ECIR.
                          Except imposing two conditions, i.e. furnishing of personal bond and
                          one surety, and of depositing his passport with the Trial Court, this
                          Court had also directed the DoE to request the Trial Court to impose
                          appropriate conditions on the applicant. After hearing arguments on
                          behalf of the applicant/accused and the DoE, the learned Trial Court
                          was pleased to impose the following conditions:



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                              Page 6 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                                    “a) The accused shall mark his attendance physically in the
                                    office of CBI/IO once every 15 days after his release.
                                    b) The accused shall provide his mobile phone/E-mail to the
                                    IO and the Court immediately after his release, on which he
                                    shall always be available.
                                    c) The accused shall also provide his residential address in
                                    Delhi, where he will be residing after his release and shall
                                    immediately communicate to the Court and the IO, in case of
                                    change of his residential address.
                                    d) The accused shall not temper with the evidence.
                                    e) The accused shall not try or contact or influence any of the
                                    witnesses of this case.
                                    f) The accused shall not interact with respect to the present
                                    case with media nor shall communicate regarding this case at
                                    any forum, during the trial of this case.
                                    g) The accused shall extend all cooperation in further
                                    investigations, if any required and during the trial.
                                    h) He shall not leave India without the permission of this
                                    Court.”


                          17.    Thereafter, vide order dated 11.03.2025, the learned Trial
                          Court had imposed the following conditions on the present applicant
                          in the case registered by the CBI:

                                    “ After hearing the Ld. Counsel for the accused and Ld. Sr.
                                    Counsel for the CBI at length, the following conditions are laid
                                    down for release of the accused on bail:
                                    a) The accused shall furnish a personal bond in the sum of Rs.
                                    5 Lakhs with one surety of like amount;
                                    b) The accused shall surrender his passport before this Court,
                                    since his passport has already expired, he will immediately
                                    apply for the renewal of the passport with the British High
                                    Commission, as per rules. Till such time, the passport is made
                                    or is under process to be made by the British High
                                    Commission, then the British High Commission if it considers
                                    fit at its own sole discretion only may issue an emergency
                                    certificate to him, if they think it proper and if permissible as



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                                Page 7 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                                    per their Rules.
                                    c) The accused shall mark his attendance physically in the
                                    office of CBI/IO once every 15 days after his release.
                                    d) The accused shall provide his mobile phone/E-mail to the
                                    IO and the Court immediately after his release, on which he
                                    shall always be available.
                                    e) The accused shall also provide his residential address in
                                    Delhi, where he will be residing after his release and shall
                                    immediately communicate to the Court and the IO, in case of
                                    change of his residential address.
                                    f) The accused shall not temper with the evidence.
                                    g) The accused shall not try or contact or influence any of the
                                    witnesses of this case.
                                    h) The accused shall not interact with respect to the present
                                    case with media nor shall communicate regarding this case at
                                    any forum, during the trial of this case.
                                    i) The accused shall extend all cooperation in further
                                    investigations, if any required and during the trial.
                                    j) He shall not leave India without the permission of this
                                    Court.
                                        In view of the judgment of the Hon‟ble Supreme Court in
                                    Criminal Appeal Nos. 2814-2815 of 2024 in case titled as
                                    Frank Vitus Vs. Narcotics Control Bureau and Ors. decided
                                    on 06.01.2025, the IO/CBI are directed to immediately inform
                                    the concerned Registration Officer appointed under Rule 3 of
                                    The Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1992 about the grant of
                                    bail to his accused, so that the Registration Officer can bring
                                    the fact of grant of bail to the notice of the concerned civil
                                    authorities constituted as per Section 3 of the Foreigners Order
                                    1948…”


                          18.    Thereafter, as apparent from the order dated 11.03.2025, the
                          learned counsel for the applicant had submitted before the learned
                          Trial Court that the applicant needs to apply for a fresh British
                          Passport online, for which necessary directions may be given to the
                          jail authorities. The learned Trial Court had directed as under:


                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                               Page 8 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                                    “ ...It is further submitted by the accused C.M. James that in
                                    terms of the bail conditions laid down by this Court vide order
                                    dated 07.03.2025, he needs to apply for a fresh British
                                    Passport, for which necessary directions may be given to the
                                    Jail Authorities to apply the said passport online at the site of
                                    British High Commission/HMPO.
                                        In these circumstances, the Superintendent Jail concerned is
                                    directed to allow the accused C.M. James to apply a passport
                                    online on the aforesaid site(s), for which they will provide him
                                    online facility with internet and in this regard he can take the
                                    assistance of his above Counsel Sh. Aljo K. Joseph, who is
                                    allowed to visit to the concerned Jail No. 4, Tihar to assist the
                                    accused in applying the fresh British Passport on 13.03.2024
                                    from 11:00 AM onwards till the said formalities of applying
                                    the passport are completed.
                                        Needless to say that the Superintendent Jail concerned will
                                    provide the computer having internet facility to the accused
                                    C.M. James and his Counsel Sh. Aljo K. Joseph in this regard.
                                    The online payment for applying the online passport be made
                                    from the Prison Persons (PP) Account of the accused and in
                                    case the said payment is not going from the said account, Ld.
                                    Counsel for the accused may make the necessary payment for
                                    the making of the fresh British Passport from his account.
                                        At this stage, it is submitted by Ld. Counsel for the accused
                                    C.M. James that copy of the previous passport be also provided
                                    to him, as the same would be required to apply for fresh
                                    passport. In view of submissions made, in the interest of
                                    justice, the same be provided to him by the Ahlmad of this
                                    Court during the course of the day…”

                          19.    Thus, it is clear from a perusal of the aforesaid orders that the
                          applicant herein has already been granted permission by the learned
                          Trial Court, to apply for a fresh passport.

                          20.    The grievance of the applicant herein is essentially that since
                          bail has been granted to him, subject to him depositing his passport
                          with the learned Trial Court, he cannot be released as he is not in a
                          position to deposit his passport, for the aforesaid reason.


                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                                Page 9 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          21.    Having considered the aforesaid orders passed by the learned
                          Trial Court, and the fact that it would take some time for a fresh
                          passport being issued to the applicant by the HMPO/British High
                          Commission, the bail condition imposed by this Court, in order dated
                          04.03.2025, stands modified, to the extent that applicant may be
                          released on regular bail, without him depositing his passport
                          immediately; however, the FRRO shall ensure that the applicant
                          does not leave the country, and the British High Commission (or
                          the concerned authority issuing the applicant’s passport) shall
                          ensure that the applicant’s fresh passport, whenever the same is
                          ready, is not handed over to the applicant, but directly deposited
                          with the learned Trial Court under intimation to this Court.

                          22.    The second argument of the applicant pertains to modifying or
                          waiving the condition of furnishing a surety bond, on the ground that
                          he has no roots in India and there is no one who can stand surety for
                          him. The applicant contends that he has no one in India who can
                          stand as a surety for him and refusal to modify the said condition
                          would be violative of Article 21 of the Constitution; however, the
                          DoE argues that furnishing a surety bond is a mandatory condition as
                          per Section 441 of Cr.P.C.

                          23.    Thus, the issue before this Court is as to whether this Court can
                          dispense with the requirement that the applicant, who is an accused in
                          the present ECIR – must furnish a surety bond – alongwith his
                          personal bond?



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                        Page 10 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          24.    In this regard, it shall be apposite to take note of the decision
                          of the Coordinate Bench of this Court in OBI Ogochukwa Stephen v.
                          State (NCT of Delhi): 2024 SCC OnLine Del 7257, wherein a similar
                          issue was decided. The Coordinate Bench was adjudicating two
                          applications seeking modification of bail conditions – pertaining to
                          furnishing of surety bond – filed by the petitioners therein, who were
                          foreign nationals (nationals of Nigeria) and had been granted regular
                          bail in a case registered under the NDPS Act, 1985. The Court had
                          framed following issues for consideration:

                                    “13. To crystalize the issue involved, the queries that the court
                                    seeks to answer by way of the present judgment are the
                                    following:
                                    13.1 Whether it is permissible for a court to completely
                                    dispense with the requirement that an undertrial/convict must
                                    furnish a „surety bond‟, that is to say a bond signed by a third
                                    person, who would be willing to assure the court that the
                                    undertrial/convict would remain available for proceedings
                                    before the court in a criminal matter ?
                                    13.2 Whether it is permissible for a court to substitute the
                                    requirement of furnishing a surety bond with deposit of cash in
                                    lieu of surety, without any person signing a bond of assurance
                                    that an undertrial/convict would remain available for
                                    proceedings before the court in a criminal matter ?
                                    13.3 If the answer to query (a) and (b) above is in the
                                    affirmative, should the waiver of furnishing surety or
                                    substitution of surety with a cash deposit, be granted by a court
                                    for the asking, or should such waiver or substitution be
                                    guarded, keeping in view the fundamentals for grant of bail or
                                    suspension of sentence; and furthermore, should the court be
                                    even more cautious in granting waiver or substitution to an
                                    undertrial/convict who is a „foreign national‟ and who has
                                    either entered India illegally or has continued to stay in India
                                    without a valid visa/residence permit, during the pendency of a
                                    criminal trial or a criminal appeal?”




                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                                Page 11 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          25.    The Coordinate Bench, after considering several judicial
                          precedents as well as Section 445 of Cr.P.C., reached the following
                          conclusion:

                                    “27.7. Furthermore, in its recent judgment in the Frank Vitus
                                    case, the Supreme Court has distinguished its earlier ruling in
                                    Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee case and has noted that
                                    “bail conditions cannot be fanciful, arbitrary or freakish” and
                                    are primarily aimed at ensuring that the accused does not
                                    disrupt the investigation, destroy evidence, commit further
                                    offenses, or fail to appear before the trial court, ultimately
                                    facilitating an efficient resolution of the trial;
                                    27.8. Upon reviewing the Supreme Court's decisions in the
                                    Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee and Frank Vitus cases, it
                                    is clear that while bail conditions must be achievable by the
                                    prisoner, the court must still enforce those requirements that
                                    are necessary to ensure the availability of the prisoner for trial
                                    and for compliance with any sentence imposed, maintaining the
                                    integrity of the judicial process; and
                                    27.9. After reviewing the judicial context, this court believes
                                    that the conditions imposed for grant of bail or suspension
                                    of sentence must pass muster on the anvil of the following
                                    criteria : First, the conditions must be necessary to ensure
                                    that the accused remains available for trial. Second, the
                                    conditions must be necessary to ensure that the integrity of
                                    the judicial process is preserved. Third, the conditions must
                                    not be impossible for the accused to fulfill. Only then the
                                    conditions imposed meet the aforesaid three-fold test,
                                    would they be proportionate, fair and correct balance
                                    between the right of a prisoner to be able to avail their
                                    liberty and for the State to enforce the law.
                                    28. In light of the foregoing, the queries framed above are
                                    answered as follows:
                                    28.1. It is permissible for a court to completely dispense
                                    with the requirement that an undertrial/convict must
                                    furnish a surety bond executed by a third person to avail
                                    bail or suspension of sentence;
                                    28.2. Waiver of the requirement of furnishing a surety or
                                    substituting surety with a cash deposit should not be granted


                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                                 Page 12 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                                    for the asking; and where granted, such waiver or
                                    substitution should be guarded, to ensure that at least the
                                    fundamental requirement that an undertrial/convict must
                                    remain available to face trial or to undergo the punishment
                                    awarded, is not jeopardised. Whether or not the requirement
                                    for furnishing surety is to be waived or substituted in a given
                                    case, must be tested on the anvil of the three essential tests
                                    referred to above; and if after applying such tests, the court is
                                    satisfied that the requirement of furnishing surety can be
                                    waived or substituted without compromising the judicial
                                    process, a court would be well-advised to do so. It must be
                                    reiterated however, that the requirement of furnishing surety
                                    should be the norm, and dispensing with that requirement,
                                    the exception, to be made only where a prisoner suffers
                                    from genuine inability to furnish surety;
                                    28.3. Waiver or substitution of surety should be even more
                                    guarded where the prisoner is a foreign national, with the
                                    obvious heightened level of flight risk;
                                    28.4. Furthermore, substitution of a surety with a cash deposit
                                    is an absolute exception, since the intent and purpose of the
                                    court in asking for a surety is simply not served by accepting a
                                    cash deposit instead. To say that if an accused/convict flees
                                    while on bail, the worst that can be done to a surety is to encash
                                    the surety bond is not at all a full answer, since in the opinion
                                    of this court, the encashment of a surety bond is the residual
                                    obligation of the surety, the primary obligation being to
                                    produce the accused/convict when asked by the court. All
                                    judgments which hold that the requirement of a surety can be
                                    waived, come from the standpoint that poverty or resource-
                                    lessness must not stand in the way of a person's liberty. The
                                    purpose of justice is not served, by merely „encashing‟ a
                                    prisoner's flight-risk; and merely accepting cash in lieu of
                                    surety would not uphold the integrity of the judicial process;
                                    and
                                    28.5. In the opinion of this court, before a court waives the
                                    requirement of furnishing a surety or substitutes it with a
                                    cash deposit, it is necessary to duly consider the facts and
                                    circumstances of a given case, and if necessary to seek
                                    appropriate verification, to be satisfied that the prisoner
                                    suffers from a genuine inability to furnish surety.”
                                                                                   (Emphasis added)




                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                                 Page 13 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          26.    Therefore, the Coordinate Bench has held that while the
                          requirement of furnishing a surety bond by a third person is the norm,
                          the same may be waived or substituted with a cash deposit in
                          exceptional cases, particularly where the accused or convict is able to
                          demonstrate a genuine and verifiable inability to furnish surety.
                          However, such waiver or substitution must not be granted
                          mechanically or for mere convenience, but only after careful scrutiny
                          of the facts and circumstances of each case, including verification
                          where necessary. Importantly, the Court emphasized that the
                          substitution of surety with a cash deposit does not, by itself, satisfy
                          the underlying purpose of ensuring the accused‟s continued presence
                          during trial, unless accompanied by additional conditions that
                          effectively mitigate the flight risk and uphold the integrity of the
                          judicial process.

                          27.    In the present case, the applicant has remained in custody in
                          India for a period of about 6 years and 5 months. As already noted by
                          this Court while granting bail, even if the applicant was to be
                          convicted for the alleged offence, the maximum punishment
                          prescribed is seven years of imprisonment. Thus, the applicant has
                          already undergone a substantial portion of the maximum sentence
                          that could be imposed, without the trial having even commenced. The
                          continued curtailment of his liberty, particularly through the
                          condition such as the furnishing of a surety bond – which he is unable
                          to furnish due to his foreign nationality and lack of social ties in India



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                          Page 14 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          – would not serve the ends of justice. The principle that bail
                          conditions must not be excessive or punitive in nature applies with
                          greater force in cases where the undertrial has already spent a period
                          in custody nearly equivalent to the potential maximum sentence. In
                          these circumstances, the imposition of rigid conditions, without due
                          regard to the applicant‟s peculiar situation, would amount to an
                          unjust deprivation of liberty.

                          28.    In the present case, the applicant is a British national. It is his
                          case that he has no friends or relatives in India who can stand as a
                          surety for him. To appreciate this submission, it is necessary to take
                          note of some crucial facts. It is not in dispute that the applicant was
                          apprehended in Dubai, UAE, where he remained in custody for
                          approximately 130 days. Thereafter, he was extradited to India on
                          04.12.2018 and, following 14 days of custodial interrogation, was
                          arrested by the DoE in the present case on 22.12.2018. Since then, the
                          applicant has remained continuously incarcerated and has not stepped
                          out of prison even for a single day. It is the DoE‟s own case that the
                          applicant had not visited India at all after February 2013 and that he
                          has no roots in the country. In such circumstances, the applicant‟s
                          assertion that he has no friend or relative in India who could stand as
                          a surety appears to be logical and acceptable.

                          29.    However, one must also not lose sight of the fact that the
                          condition of furnishing a surety is not merely a procedural formality,
                          but serves a critical function in securing the presence of the accused



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                          Page 15 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          during the course of trial. Its ramifications extend beyond the mere
                          possibility of undergoing the sentence upon conviction. The presence
                          of the accused is essential for ensuring the effective conduct of trial
                          proceedings and if an accused was to abscond and remain
                          unavailable, the same may cause prejudice to the trial. Therefore,
                          while genuine inability to furnish surety can be considered by a court,
                          the court must also ensure that any relaxation in this regard does not
                          compromise the integrity or continuity of the trial process.

                          30.    Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case,
                          including the applicant‟s prolonged incarceration, his status as a
                          foreign national with no roots in India, and his inability to arrange for
                          a surety locally, this Court is inclined to modify the bail condition
                          imposed earlier. Instead of the requirement to furnish a personal bond
                          and surety bond of ₹5,00,000/- each – the applicant shall now furnish
                          a personal bond of ₹5,00,000/- along with a cash surety in the
                          enhanced sum of ₹10,00,000/-.

                          31.    Further, to ensure adequate safeguards against any risk of
                          absconding while also balancing the applicant‟s right to seek
                          enlargement on bail, this Court also directs that the condition that the
                          applicant shall deposit his passport with the learned Trial Court (as
                          modified above) which shall not be released without the permission
                          of the Court, shall be strictly adhered to. The applicant shall strictly
                          adhere to the conditions imposed by the learned Trial Court,
                          including marking his attendance physically in the office of



                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                          Page 16 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
                          DoE/concerned I.O. once every 15 days after his release. The
                          applicant shall also furnish the details of his residential address where
                          he intends to reside post-release. Before being released from the jail,
                          the said address will be verified by the learned Trial Court through
                          DoE. Additionally, he shall promptly inform both the learned Trial
                          Court and the concerned I.O. in case of any change in such address.
                          These conditions shall be strictly adhered to as a measure to ensure
                          the applicant‟s continued presence during the course of trial.

                          32.    With above directions, the present application is disposed of.

                          33.    A copy of this judgment be forwarded to the learned Trial
                          Court for necessary information.

                          34.    The judgment be uploaded on the website forthwith.



                                                       DR. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
                          MAY 22, 2025/zp




                          BAIL APPLN. 1337/2024                                         Page 17 of 17
Signature Not Verified
Digitally Signed
By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN
Signing Date:22.05.2025
20:00:34
