




	Offset Obligations for Defence Contracts 


    
    

    
    


                                

    






	
	

    
        
            
                Print
            
                XClose
        
        
        
        Press Information Bureau 
Government of India
Ministry of Defence
06-May-2016 16:15 IST 
        Offset Obligations for Defence Contracts  






Since introduction of offset guidelines, 29 offset contracts (19-Indian
Air Force, 7-Indian Navy and 3-Indian Army) have been signed



                                






Since introduction of offset guidelines,
29 offset contracts (19-Indian Air Force, 7-Indian Navy and 3-Indian Army) have
been signed.  The total offset obligations work out to BUSD 6.13 approx.
(contracts with different denominations converted to USD) and are to be
discharged by 2022.  Details of offset obligations for contracts under
finalization shall only be known once the contracts are signed.


The offset obligations to be discharged
by 31st December 2015 in respect of defence contracts signed so far amounts to
BUSD 2.23 approx. Against which the vendors have reported discharge claims
worth BUSD 1.78 approx. (subject to audit) through their quarterly reports.


Offset contracts are co-terminus with the
main contract and are extended if main contracts are extended.


 

  
  
(i)
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
Low Level Transportable Radar (LLTR)
  
  
  
: 
  
  
  
Since main contract extended.
  
 
 

  
  
(ii)
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
Fleet Tanker
  
  
  
:
  
  
  
To facilitate implementation of outstanding
  offset obligations.  Penalty of Euro 2.07 million was recovered.
  
 
 

  
  
(iii)
  
  
  
HAROP-UAV
  
  
  
: 
  
  
  
To facilitate implementation of outstanding
  offset obligations.  Penalty of 80,500 USD was recovered.
  
 



The offset obligations arising out of
contracts under finalisation and Indian companies likely to be benefited shall
only be known once the contracts are signed and implemented in totality.


This information was
given by Minister of State for Defence Rao Inderjit Singh in a written reply to
Shri Kaushalendra Kumar and others in Lok Sabha today.


DM/NAMPI/RAJ


 


 







    
    
    


