BUDGET SPEECH
   2025-26




      1
       Respected Speaker Sir! I am presenting the budget for the
financial year 2025-26 in this Hon’ble House. Today is a historic
day. This is not an ordinary budget. The people of Delhi and the
entire country are seeing today that the new government of Delhi,
which has been elected with a historic mandate, has been voted by
the people of Delhi with great hopes and expectations. How will the
first budget of that government be? I want to tell you that this budget
is not just an account of government income and expenditure but
is the first resolved step taken towards the development of Delhi
which has become miserable and worse in the last ten years. A
Delhi that becomes a confluence of glorious history and bright
future.

2. I and my government, while paying obeisance to the people of
Delhi and Mother Yamuna, accept this responsibility with all
humility and pledge to fulfill it properly.


3. This budget of ours is inspired by the principles of Baba Saheb's-
‘Samta’, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay's ‘Antyodaya’ and Mahatma
Gandhi's ‘Sarvodaya’ and our illustrious Prime Minister Shri
Narendra Modi's ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas and
Sabka Prayas’.

4. Speaker Sir, I feel very sad to tell you that in the last ten years,
Delhi has been continuously slipping down on every scale of
development. Rickety roads, polluted Yamuna, sewer overflow,
pathetic condition of health facilities and horrific stifling air due to
air pollution, all these are clear evidence of the governance and
policies of the previous government. The previous government has
severely undermined the economy of Delhi. Delhi Jal Board is in
                                   2
loss, DTC is in loss, the corporation created for the upliftment of
Dalits is closed, the department working for the development of
slums is completely closed, broken roads, dirty water, flowing
sewer, all these had become the identity of Delhi. In such a
situation, we took charge of the Government and running it is no
less than a challenge, but I still want to convey the intention of the
Government to all of you through these two lines:

’’यक न हो तो कोई रा ता नकलता है ,

हवा क ओट लेकर भी चराग जलता है ’’

5. Speaker Sir, Through you, I want to inform the people of entire
Delhi that during the rule of the previous government, the maximum
budget shown on paper in the year 2023-24 was Rs 78800 crore,
which in the next financial year 2024-25 was reduced by Rs 2800
crore to only Rs 76000 crore, we have proposed one lakh crore
rupees as the first budget of the Bharatiya Janata Party
government in the year 2025-26. Which is 31.5 percent more than
last year's budget and is unprecedented and historic in itself.

6. Speaker Sir, While the budget decreased instead of increasing
year after year, the GDP rate was also lower than the entire country.
Delhi's per capita income grew at a slower pace than the national
level. These facts clearly state that the previous government
neither had the capacity to increase revenue nor the will to spend
honestly on development works. In the current situation of Delhi, it
is clearly visible that the infrastructure and civic services are
completely ruined. Not only this, these figures are clear evidence
of financial mismanagement. It would also be appropriate to say
here that the government revenue decreased because the revenue
                                    3
that should have gone to the government was going to people
associated with the previous government through the liquor mafia,
Jal board and PWD contractors. But now the days of corruption,
mismanagement and inefficiency are gone with the AAP(da)
government. In this historic budget of one lakh crore rupees, the
capital expenditure has almost been doubled. It is for the first time
in the history of budget of Delhi. Last year the allocation of capital
expenditure was Rs 15089.25 crore which is now been proposed
at Rs 28115.48 crore. The allocation of Capital expenditure in this
budget of ‘Viksit Delhi’ is a clear proof of our commitment towards
improving roads, drains, sewerage, education facilities.

7. Speaker Sir, the previous government had reduced the most
important expenditures indicating lack of money and resources.
The irony is that if the previous government had not stopped the
schemes of the Central Government in Delhi for political reasons,
then there would have never been a shortage of money in the
development of health, urban housing, water and sewerage etc.

8. Speaker Sir, I would like to present just one example here. The
whole world knows that the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ scheme based on
the vision of the Honorable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is
implemented in the entire country and millions of needy citizens
have received direct benefit from it. But despite the continuous
requests of the Central Government, this scheme was not
implemented in Delhi only because the then Chief Minister was
adamant that his name should be added before to this scheme. The
common people of Delhi had to bear the brunt of this stubbornness,
who were given empty mohalla clinics in the name of health
services.
                                  4
9. Speaker Sir, I am very happy to inform this House that this
Government, in the first Cabinet meeting immediately after
assuming office, had decided to implement the Ayushman Bharat
Yojana. This scheme will be implemented soon and through this,
the people of Delhi will be able to get the best health services in
the form of schemes like Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana,
Ayushman Arogya Mandir and Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat
Infrastructure Mission. Our Government has also decided that
along with the amount of insurance of Rs. 5 lakh given by the
Centre in the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, it is proposed to
additional insurance of Rs. 5 lakh by the Delhi Government as well.
It is proposed to allocate about Rs. 2144 crore for these schemes.
This will ensure that the beneficiaries can get high-level health
facilities worth up to Rs. 10 lakh.


10. Honorable Speaker! In our manifesto, we had declared 16
resolutions with the intention of improving the life of every citizen of
Delhi. Empowerment of women is a key part of the agenda of
Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. In line with this, we had
announced that Rs 2500 per month will be provided to the poor
women of Delhi. I am very happy to inform that we have not only
decided to implement this scheme as 'Mahila Samridhi Yojana' but
also a provision of Rs 5100 crore has been made in this scheme
during 2025-26. It is also proposed to increase the allocation for
Mukhyamantri Matru Vandana Yojana to Rs 210 crore. Unlike the
previous government, the policies of our government will not keep
the poor to poorer and make the middle class miserable. Inspired
by the Indian philosophy of 'सव भव तु सु खनः सव स तु नरामया’, our
government will make proper efforts for the comfort and health of

                                   5
every Delhi resident living in slums, unauthorized colonies, middle
class and upper class areas.


                (REVISED ESTIMATES 2024-25)
11. Speaker Sir, As I said earlier, due to the financial
mismanagement of previous government, the expenditure
commitment made in the last year's budget could not be fulfilled
due to lack of resources. Therefore, keeping in view the current
financial year's income and revenue situation, it is proposed to
reduce the revised budget estimates for the financial year 2024-25
to Rs 69500 crore. In this proposed revised budget estimates, an
allocation of Rs 54,706 crore is proposed to be made for revenue
expenditure and an allocation of Rs 14,794 crore is proposed to be
made for capital expenditure. In the approved budget estimates for
the year 2024-25, there was a provision of Rs 37,000 crore for
establishment and other committed expenditure, in the revised
estimates it has been reduced to Rs 36,650 crore. Similarly, Rs
39,000 crore approved for schemes/programmes/projects has
been reduced to Rs 32,850 crore in the Revised Estimates.


(SUPPLEMENTARY DEMANDS FOR GRANTS FOR THE YEAR 2024-25)

12. Sir, the second and final supplementary demands for grants of
Rs 163.4365 crore will be required in the Revised Estimates during
2024-25. Therefore, I request the House to approve the
supplementary demands for grants.




                                 6
13. Now I present the budget estimates for the next financial year
before the honourable House.


                (BUDGET ESTIMATES 2025-26)
14. I am very happy to announce again that this year the proposed
budget estimates have increased to Rs 1 lakh crore. This historic
increase has been possible only with the guidance of the Hon'ble
Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji.
15. The proposed budget of one lakh crore rupees for the financial
year 2025-26 is to be financed from the Tax Revenue of Rs 68,700
crore, Non-Tax Revenue of Rs 750 crore, Small Savings loan of Rs
15,000 crore, Central Road Fund of Rs 1000 crore, Centrally
Sponsored Schemes of Rs 4128 crore, Grants-in-aid from the
Government of India of Rs 7348 crore and the remaining amount
from the opening balance. 72 percent of this budget has been
allocated for revenue expenditure and 28 percent for capital
expenditure.




                                7
Mr. Speaker, in this budget, there are ten main resolutions or 10
key focus areas of our government:


1. Infrastructure Development –
Development of basic amenities – water, electricity and roads


2. Industrial Development and Investment Promotion –
Industry and investment – the path to prosperity, the basis of
progress


3. Access to Water, Sanitation, and Yamuna Cleaning-
Cleanliness, pure water, clean Yamuna campaign will become the
identity of Delhi


4. Health and Education For All-
Quality education, expansion of health will become the basis of
Delhi's future


5. Tourism, Art, Language and Culture Promotion-
Making Delhi a world tourism center with the idea of 'heritage as
well as development'




                                8
6. Expanding Social Security and Development-


Not only support but also power and development for poor and
deprived families


7. Seamless Connectivity-
A new era of public transport


8. Efficient Irrigation and Flood Control-
Improvement in irrigation, solution to floods, life of the capital will
be safe


9. Power, Sustainable Development, Green Growth and
Pollution Control-
Green Delhi, Clean Air, Sustainable Development


10. Smart and Good Governance-
Good governance with the mantra of ‘Perform, Reform and
Transform’




                                   9
Infrastructure Development – Development of basic facilities
– water, electricity and roads


1. Our aim is that this budget will not only talk about infrastructure,
but will also lay a strong foundation for a developed Delhi! Smart
Infra, Smooth Roads and Seamless Connectivity – these will now
be the identity of New Delhi. Now there will not be only talk of traffic
jams in Delhi, there will be the reality of Bullet Speed Development!


2. Once upon a time, the owner of Delhi sold the dream of making
Delhi like London to the people of Delhi. But broken roads,
increasing traffic jams, electrocutions and incomplete projects have
turned this metropolis into a chaotic capital. Governments have
only pasted posters in the name of infrastructure, but development
on the ground remained stagnant.


3. Inspired by the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, this
budget is committed to equip Delhi with modern, safe and high-tech
infrastructure. Delhi is now entering a new era of Traffic-Free
Expressways, Seamless Connectivity, Elevated Corridors and
Smart Surveillance System. This budget is not just addition and
subtraction of numbers, but a resolution letter of development,
which is a historic step towards making Delhi a Global
Infrastructure Hub.


4. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi says, “We must invest in
resilient infrastructure today for a better tomorrow.” Prime Minister

                                   10
Shri Narendra Modi also says, “Better infrastructure is about
connecting dreams, accelerating progress.” Meaning – “Better
infrastructure means connecting dreams and accelerating
development.”


5. Following the path shown by Prime Minister Modi, I, through you,
Speaker Sir, would like to inform this House that ₹1000 crore has
been allocated to improve the connectivity of Delhi with the NCR
region with the support of the Central Government by launching
infrastructure projects through the funds available under Central
Roads Fund (CRF) of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways
(Government of India) and Urban Development Fund (UDF) of the
Ministry of Urban Development (Government of India) etc.
6. Keeping in view the security needs, especially for women, it is
proposed to install 50,000 cameras in addition to the existing
2,80,000 cameras in Delhi.


7. An amount of ₹3843 crore has been allocated for improvement
of road and bridge infrastructure in Delhi.


8. It is proposed to launch a new scheme under the Planning
Department. i.e., Chief Minister Development Fund, with a budget
provision of Rs 1400 crore. The scheme aims to allocate funds for
development and support and will essentially complement the
efforts already made under other schemes and initiatives of the
Government.


                                11
9. An amount of ₹1000 crore is being proposed under the Planning
Department for Centrally funded projects for infrastructure projects
to achieve development goals in the National Capital Territory of
Delhi in 2025-26.


10. Today we are once again committed to give a new look to Delhi.
We are laying such a strong and transparent foundation that
nobody can weaken it again. Our dream is of a prosperous and
strong Delhi, a global city that can face every challenge and has
the capacity to lead the world.


11. Despite being the capital of the country, a large part of Delhi's
population lives in slums and JJ colonies. Despite huge
expenditure over the years, even basic amenities have not been
provided in these areas. This is a very unfortunate thing.


12. Speaker Sir, Bharat Ratna Acharya Vinoba Bhave said,


-“वा िवक उ ित तभी की जा सकती है, जब उसका लाभ सभी को ा       हो, ना िक
कुछ तक ही सीिमत रहे।”


13. Providing basic amenities in slums and JJ colonies is the top
priority of this Government. We are working towards making slums
and JJ colonies more accessible. I propose to allocate ₹696 crore
to DUSIB for development of slums and JJ colonies, which is 157%
more than last year. For infrastructure works like CC footpaths,

                                 12
drains, toilets, maintenance works and bathrooms for women, I
propose ₹230 crore against ₹ 42 crore last year.


14. The previous government failed to provide benefits under
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban). We will accept this scheme
so that our urban poor can get its benefits. An allocation of ₹20
crore is proposed under this scheme.


15. A provision of ₹350 crore has been made under MLA-LAD in
Budget Estimates 2025-26.This amount will be provided for
strengthening and expansion of infrastructure such as roads, lanes,
local parks, street lights etc.
16. Food is a basic need of every human being. To enhance food
security and improve nutritional status of economically weaker
sections, ₹100 crore has been arranged for setting up Atal
Canteens to provide nutritious and subsidized food at 100 locations
in Delhi by the birth centenary of late Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji.


17. This budget is not just a document for the construction of roads,
bridges and flyovers, but a roadmap to rebuild Delhi's future. Now
Delhi's roads will not be just roads, but arteries of progress. Now
Delhi's connectivity will not just be traffic improvement, but will
become the engine of economic development. And now Delhi's
infrastructure will not just be a part of construction projects, but will
become the identity of a prosperous and self-reliant capital.




                                   13
INDUSTRIAL         DEVELOPMENT           AND        INVESTMENT
PROMOTION–


Industry and Investment - Path to Prosperity, Basis of
Progress


1. Speaker Sir, where industries flourish, society also progresses.
When investment comes, not only the economy strengthens, but
new doors of employment also open.


2. Delhi, which was once the center of business, culture and
industrial activities, has lagged behind in the race of industrial
development in the past years due to chaos, red tapism and
mismanagement. Big industries remained stagnant, businessmen
waited for new policies and investors lost confidence. But now, a
pledge has been taken to make Delhi the most favourable hub for
business and investment in the country.


3. In line with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's vision of "Ease
of Doing Business" and "Make in India", we are laying the
foundation for an innovative, entrepreneur-friendly and investor-
driven industrial revolution in Delhi. This budget is not just an
announcement of policies but a concrete roadmap to provide real
relief to businessmen, investors and startups.




                                14
4. Babasaheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar, the architect of the
Constitution of India, said
“आिथक उ ित एवं सामािजक उ ान की कंु जी औ ोगीकरण म है। औ ोिगक
िवकास बढ़ाने से हम रोज़गार दे सकते ह, ग़रीबी कम कर सकते ह तथा जीवन र
को ऊँचा कर सकते ह।”


5. Our government will bring a new Industrial Policy for Delhi. This
will address industrial compliance issues and make it easier to do
business in Delhi. A Warehousing Policy will also be finalised which
will meet the huge need of industries to provide safe, secure and
fast Warehousing in Delhi.


6. The Department of Industries will also bring a regularisation plan
for industrial areas in Delhi. Also, a Single Window System will be
introduced to give impetus to 'Ease of Doing Business'.


7. Leased Industrial Properties will be made freehold in
consultation with the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs and DDA.
A large number of industrial areas are in very poor condition, a
programme for developmental and re-developmental activities will
be made to improve the working conditions in these industrial
areas. Also, illegal and polluting industries will be dealt with a "Zero
Tolerance" policy.


8. Traders in Delhi face huge problems in running business
activities, so it is proposed to set up a Trader Welfare Board, which

                                   15
will work on identifying and redressing the problems faced by
traders in Delhi.


9. A new scheme will be launched for skill promotion of cottage
industries like Poultry, Apiary, small scale handicraft and handloom
activities, small scale food processing etc. The scheme will be
implemented by the Delhi Khadi and Village Industries Board.
These industries often run small-scale manufacturing operations
that use local resources and skills, create handmade goods and
contribute to local employment and economic development. A
budget of ₹50 crore has been set aside for the scheme during
2025-26.


10. Delhi has immense opportunities for various types of
investments, especially in IT, banking, tourism, data storage,
electronics, etc. To take advantage of this opportunity, an
Investment Summit has been planned this year, which will be held
every two years thereafter.


11. Now industries will run with transparency and simplicity, not with
corruption and red tapism. Our aim is that schemes will not get
stuck in files, but industries will flourish on the ground.




                                  16
ACCESS TO WATER, SANITATION, AND YAMUNA CLEANING-
Swachhata, Shuddh Pani, Swachh Yamuna campaign, will
become Delhi's identity


1. Speaker Sir, water is not just a gift of nature, it is the basis of
civilization. Clean water is the guarantee of a healthy life and clean
rivers are the identity of cultures.
2. Providing clean water and sanitation to every citizen of Delhi is
the primary responsibility of our government. Today I am presenting
before you our visionary plan for the water and sanitation sector
with a historic amount of ₹ 9,000 crore.


3. Our goal is to provide clean water to Delhi's 3 crore population,
so that the gap between the daily demand of 1,290 MGD and the
current installed capacity of 1,000 MGD can be bridged.


4. The whole of Delhi saw that when the summer was at its peak,
one after another tanker scams were coming to light. We are going
to install GPS system in water tankers and will develop an Android
mobile app "DJB Tanker" through which citizens will be able to
monitor and track the tankers coming to their area.


5. We have decided to take consultancy services for water sector
projects at a cost of ₹10 crore, so that water supply and sewerage
related schemes can be operated in a better manner.


                                  17
6. In addition, we are investing ₹150 crore in automation,
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) System and
Intelligent Metering to make water management more effective.


7. Repair and development of Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at a
cost of ₹500 crore, replacement of old sewer lines at a cost of ₹250
crore, and improvement of Water Treatment Plants at a cost of
₹250 crore will be done.


8. Super sucker and dicky machines will be purchased at a cost of
₹20 crore to improve the sewerage system. Along with this, a
budget of ₹10 crore has been allocated for the renovation of
Wazirabad trunk sewer.


9. Tapping of Drains project will be run at a cost of ₹250 crore to
prevent and treat dirty drain water in Delhi.


10. Apart from this, a budget of ₹50 crore has been proposed for
the repair of CLC Drain, ₹50 crore for piped water supply in areas
still deprived of water supply and ₹200 crore for the conversion and
interception of Najafgarh Drain.


11. To prevent water loss and increase efficiency, pipelines will be
laid in place of open canals from Haryana with an amount of ₹200
crore.


                                 18
12. To deal with the water crisis, we will install new
Borewells/Ranney Wells at a cost of ₹100 crore. An amount of ₹50
crore has been allocated for the revival of Delhi's water bodies.


13. Apart from this, ₹50 crore will be spent on Rainwater Harvesting
and ₹150 crore has been allocated for Emergency Water Storage.


14. Speaker Sir, on the day the result of Delhi elections came, the
Prime Minister had announced that the promise of cleaning
Yamuna ji in the Sankalp Patra will be the biggest priority of the
Delhi Government. Delhi, which was once irrigated by the clean
water of Yamuna, is today struggling with water crisis, sewage
overflow and polluted water reservoirs. The indifference of previous
governments did not quench the thirst of Delhi, but deepened the
water crisis. Vows were taken to save Yamuna ji, but it was turned
into a drain of filth.


15. Inspired by the historic initiatives of Prime Minister Shri
Narendra Modi ji like Sabarmati River Front and Namami Gange,
we are committed to make Delhi's water management modern,
scientific and sustainable development oriented.


16. Yamuna is not just a river, but our cultural and historical
heritage. Cleaning of Yamuna ji is an important part of our
manifesto and is also one of the main priorities of this budget.
Yamuna is a flowing lifeline in the fabric of Indian civilization. But
unfortunately, the previous governments completely failed to clean

                                  19
it. Now our government is going to take decisive steps so that
Yamuna ji can be made clean and pure again.


17. For cleaning Yamuna ji, we will build 40 Decentralised Sewage
Treatment Plants at a cost of ₹ 500 crore, so that sewage water is
treated at the source itself.


18. Along with this, we are also determined to upgrade the existing
Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) so that the operational capacity of
sewage treatment can be improved.


19. In addition, modern machinery will be purchased with an
amount of ₹40 crore, which will include modern techniques like
trash skimmer, weed harvester, dredge utility.


20. We believe that more assistance will be required to bring Delhi's
water and sewage infrastructure in line with international
standards. Therefore, we will demand financial assistance of
₹2,000 crore from the Government of India.


21. Through these initiatives, we promise clean drinking water,
sewage management and clean Yamuna to the people of Delhi.
This is not just a budget announcement, but a commitment to make
Delhi's future free from water crisis.




                                 20
HEALTH AND EDUCATION FOR ALL-
Quality education, expansion of health, will become the basis
of Delhi's future


1. Speaker Sir, health and education are the most important
foundation of any nation. But in the past years, the people of Delhi
could neither get better treatment nor better education. Long
queues in hospitals, months of waiting for tests, falling standards
in schools – this was the picture of a poor system that was only
entangled in promises and show-offs.


There is an old saying
“पहला सुख िनरोगी काया, दू जा सुख घर म हो माया।”



2. The previous government had ruined the health service of Delhi.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), there should
be 5 beds available in hospitals for a population of one thousand.
At present, 2.70 beds are available for a population of one
thousand in Delhi. In such a situation, according to the standards
of WHO, the health infrastructure of Delhi is still weak. This is the
reason why there are long queues of patients at the OPD and
medicine counters of big government hospitals. Patients are forced
to stand in line for hours. Waiting for surgery and investigation is
also a big problem. The reason for this is that Delhi government
hospitals are facing a huge shortage of doctors, nursing and
paramedical staff. Also, there is a lack of facilities for radiology tests
like ultrasound, ultrasound doppler, CT scan, MRI, PET-CT in the

                                    21
hospitals. These problems were also highlighted in the report of the
committee constituted by the High Court.


3. At present, projects of 24 hospitals are pending. These include
projects for seven ICU hospitals, four new hospitals and expansion
of 13 existing hospitals. On completion of these projects, 16,186
beds will be added to Delhi government hospitals.


4. Our government aims to provide accessible, affordable and high-
quality healthcare to every citizen of Delhi, whether rich or poor,
young or old, male or female. We will achieve this goal by
strengthening our health infrastructure and also expanding primary
and tertiary healthcare facilities.


5. Sustainable policy interventions and infrastructure development
will be initiated to ensure better healthcare facilities for all citizens.
We are going to transform healthcare services in Delhi with the
great mantra of सव भव ु सु खनः सव स ु िनरामयाः .


6. The proposals of Budget 2025-26 include expansion of primary
healthcare, enhancing financial accessibility, strengthening
infrastructure, promoting digital health and updating regulations.


7. Health and Wellness Centres (HWC)/Ayushman Arogya Mandir
(AAM) will be expanded to ensure better primary healthcare
facilities with the establishment of 400 Health and Wellness

                                    22
Centres (HWC)/Ayushman Arogya Mandir (AAM). An outlay of
₹320 crore is proposed under this scheme.


8. Also, critical care blocks and diagnostics will be strengthened
under PM-ABHIM. An outlay of ₹1666.66 crore is proposed under
this scheme.


9. In addition, our government will increase the coverage for
financial protection under AB-PMJAY. An allocation of ₹147.64
crore has been made under this scheme.


10. Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will be implemented to
digitalize health services. An allocation of ₹9.92 crore is proposed
under this scheme.


11. We are working fast towards updating health regulations for
better accountability.


12. While working towards Alternative Healthcare, we are also
going to implement Delhi State AYUSH Society (DSAS).


13. The budget includes allocations of ₹3421 crore for capital
projects and ₹ 6874 crore for various schemes, programmes and
projects under the health sector.



                                 23
14. Now let’s talk about education. Since 2013, the previous
government talked about making education a priority for
governance in Delhi, but did the exact opposite. Delhi was misled
in the name of education, and the government’s policies deprived
children of their future. Countless students were failed and ordered
to go to open schools. According to reports, more than 1.5 lakh
students fail in Classes 9 and 11 every year. Without effective
remedial programmes, struggling students are left behind, leading
to high dropout rates and weakening government claims. The
children who had the responsibility of shaping Delhi’s future on their
shoulders are today left helpless by the corrupt policies of the
previous government and their future is pushed into darkness.


Speaker Sir, Swami Vivekananda said:
“यिद गरीब छा िश ा के िलए नही ं प ंच सकता, तो िश ा को उसके पास प ं चनी
चािहए।”



15. Our government’s priority will be to ensure that every child gets
good and accessible education, that too near their homes.


16. To ensure quality education to all children irrespective of their
economic background, we announce the opening of 60 new CM
Shri Schools from the upcoming session 2025-26, which will be
fully compliant with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and
will implement the National Curriculum Framework for School
Education (NCFSC) 2023. These schools will be opened on the


                                  24
lines of PM Shri Schools. A budget amount of ₹ 100 crore has been
kept for this scheme in the financial year 2025-26.


17. Our government is also going to launch Mahamana Pt. Madan
Mohan Malaviya Vidya Shakti Mission. Under this initiative,
professional guidance will be provided to students preparing for
JEE, NEET, CLAT, CA and CUET examinations.


18. This scheme has been designed in line with Article 4.43 of the
National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. A budget amount of ₹21
crore has been kept for this scheme in the financial year 2025-26.


19. In line with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020,
'Rashtraneeti' is being launched under this vision, for which a
special budget allocation of ₹1.5 crore is being made. This program
involving students from KG to class 12 of the Directorate of
Education of the Government of Delhi will provide practical
knowledge of governance, democracy, active citizenship and policy
making. It will also include youth parliament, direct interaction with
ministers and administrative officials, digital governance, virtual
tour of rural and remote areas of India and community
engagement, ensuring that students become responsible, aware
and active citizens.


20. Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Language Laboratories will be set up in
100 government schools of Delhi. Many languages like English,
Hindi, Sanskrit, French, German and Spanish will be taught in

                                  25
these laboratories using modern technology and Artificial
Intelligence. An amount of ₹ 21 crore is proposed for this scheme
in the financial year 2025-26.


21. The programme 'Science of Living’ is being started for students
from KG to class 12. A budget of ₹ 1.5 crore has been kept for this
scheme in the financial year 2025-26.


22. As per CBSE norms, 175 new computer labs will be set up in
government schools. A budget amount of ₹ 50 crore has been kept
for this scheme in FY 2025-26.


23. The Delhi government is proposing to set up smart classrooms
in all classes from class 9 to 12 for the Directorate of Education,
which will cover a total of 7,000 classrooms in a phased manner.


24. In the first phase, about 2000 classrooms will be converted into
smart classrooms. Each classroom will have interactive
panels/projectors, audiovisual aids, and internet connectivity,
leading to more engaging and effective teaching methods. An
amount of ₹100 crore has been proposed for this scheme in FY
2025-26.


25. To encourage academic excellence, free laptops will be
provided to 1,200 top performing students of Class 11 based on


                                 26
Class 10 board results. A budget amount of ₹7.5 crore has been
kept for this scheme in FY 2025-26.


26. NEEEV (New Era of Entrepreneurial Ecosystem and Vision)
program will be started in all schools from class 8 to class 12. By
integrating entrepreneurship education with financial and digital
literacy and emphasizing on experiential learning, NEEEV will
equip students with the skills they need to be equipped in the
modern economy. A budget amount of ₹20 crore has been kept for
this scheme in FY 2025-26.
27. A Budget of ₹ 618.00 crore is proposed for various schemes
under Technical Education. This includes ₹230 crore for Delhi Skill
and Entrepreneurship University, ₹57 crore for Netaji Subhash
Technical University, ₹37 crore for Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences
and Research University, ₹21.50 crore for Indira Gandhi Delhi
Technical University for Women and ₹42 crore for Delhi Technical
University. In addition, we have proposed ₹68.98 crore for our
Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs).


28. With a view to strengthen the education infrastructure in Delhi,
an Edu-City is being set up in Narela sub-city. For this, DDA has
allotted land — (i) 160 acres to IGDTUW, and (ii) 1270 flats to four
universities, namely DTU, DSEU, DPRSU, GGSIPU, to enable
them to set up or expand their campuses in Narela. For this, a
budget of ₹500 crore is proposed in the financial year 2025-26.




                                 27
29. Proposal for redevelopment of ITI PUSA campus and
construction of ITI Shahdara campus. A proposed budget of ₹20.65
crore is for redevelopment of ITI PUSA campus and construction of
additional building for ITI Shahdara.


30. It is proposed to identify as many as possible skilled but
unorganized sector workers and bring them into the
formal/organized sector through standardized certification process
and short-term courses to be conducted through various
universities/institutions. This will improve their ability to get
employment in the market/industry. In addition, so far 7155 trainees
have been certified in 34 different tasks under the RPL component
of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY 3.0 & PMKVY
4.0) through other government partners and private agencies.


31. A budget of ₹2.43 crore is proposed for 11 Incubation Centres
under the State Incubation Policy to promote entrepreneurship
among youth, set up start-ups and develop capacity to make them
job providers rather than job seekers. At present, 268 Incubates are
working in the Incubation Centres.


32. A total budget of ₹886.15 crore has been allocated for the
Department of Training and Technical Education. The resolution of
our government is to provide clear – better health facilities to every
citizen, high quality education to every child.




                                  28
TOURISM, ART, LANGUAGE AND CULTURE PROMOTION –


Making Delhi a world tourism centre with the idea of ‘heritage
as well as development’


1. Speaker Sir, I have seen Delhi very closely since my student life.
I have seen all its colours and have found that perhaps it is the
most beautiful city in the world. Whenever I see the colours of Delhi,
I remember Mirza Ghalib’s couplet:


“एक रोज़ अपनी ह से पूछा, क द ल          या है ,

तो यूँ जवाब म कह गई —

ये द ु नया मानो िज म है और द ल उसक जान।”


2. Delhi is not just a city, it is a living confluence of centuries of
history, art, culture and traditions. From the heroic saga of the Red
Fort to the prayers of Bangla Sahib, from the glory of India Gate to
the divinity of Akshardham, every corner of Delhi tells a unique
story.


3. Our government is committed to make Delhi a major hub on the
world tourism map, promote Delhi's art and culture at national and
international level, and preserve and strengthen our linguistic
heritage.

                                  29
4. To make Delhi a world tourism hub, I propose an allocation of
₹117 crore for Tourism sector schemes as compared to ₹66 crore
last year.


5. We propose to organize boat tours in Yamuna River from Sonia
Vihar to Jagatpur Shani Mandir. In this regard, MoU has been
signed with Inland Waterways Authority of India and DDA. This
project will be done on PPP mode.


6. We will take steps for promotion of Tourism and branding Delhi
and an outlay of ₹25 crore is proposed for this purpose.


7. It is proposed to organize a fellowship programme to prepare
young professionals in specific and emerging areas of tourism and
an outlay of ₹2 crore is proposed in this regard.


8. Delhi has all the necessary facilities and venues to host an
international level film festival. We propose to hold an international
film festival this year to culturally enrich and promote Delhi as a film
destination. I propose a provision of ₹30 crore for this purpose.


9. We will also develop a new tourist circuit covering War Memorial,
Kartavya Path, Prime Minister Museum and New Parliament
House.




                                   30
10. An annual winter festival will be organized with events like
cultural shows, food festival, musical concerts etc.


11. A new “Talent Hunt Scheme” will be launched whose main
objective will be to identify hidden talents, provide them platform,
encourage creativity, promote cultural heritage and empower
artists. Further, the scheme will target artists of Delhi which will
include students, young professionals and self-taught artists in
various art forms like music, dance and visual arts and performing
arts. An outlay of ₹5 crore has been proposed under this scheme.


12. I would like to inform that budget allocation for Maithili- Bhojpuri
Academy is proposed to be increased from Rs. 3.50 Crore to Rs.
6.30 Crore.


13. In this budget, a proposal of ₹139 crore has been proposed for
various schemes/ programmes /projects under the Department of
Art, Culture and Language.




                                   31
EXPANDING SOCIAL SECURITY AND DEVELOPMENT –


Not just support, but strength and development for poor and
deprived families


    1. Speaker Sir, it is the commitment of the Delhi Government that
       no one sleeps hungry, no one remains helpless, and every
       person gets the right to live a life with dignity. As a sevika of
       Delhi, I have taken a vow to remove every single pain of the
       people of Delhi.


न    हं कामये रा   ं, न   ग न पुनभवम्। कामये दु ः खत ानां, ािणनामाितनाशनम्॥


That is, I neither desire a state, nor heaven, nor reincarnation. My
wish is that the suffering of the suffering beings should be removed.


2. The goal of our Government is inclusive development. The
budget that we are presenting today is not just an account of
numbers, but a concrete step towards empowerment and equal
opportunities for every citizen. We are working on the principle of
Antyodaya, which is the core spirit of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya
ji’s Integral Humanism. Our capital should not only become a
symbol of modern infrastructure and economic development, but
the benefits of this development should reach all sections of the
society equally.



                                      32
3. With this vision, we have proposed several schemes for social
security and public welfare. A total budget of ₹10,047 crore has
been allocated for this sector, out of which ₹9,780 crore has
allocated for schemes and projects of the Social Welfare
Department, Women and Child Development Department and
SC/ST/OBC Welfare Department.


4. Through these schemes, we will reach out to over 9.50 lakh
beneficiaries, including 4.02 lakh senior citizens, 4.18 lakh widows
and women in distress, and 1.30 lakh Divyangjans.


5. We have taken several important decisions to further strengthen
the financial assistance schemes; monthly assistance for senior
citizens (60-69 years) is being increased to ₹2,500; those above 70
years of age will be given monthly assistance of ₹3,000. Senior
citizens (60-69 years) from SC/ST/minority communities will get an
additional monthly assistance of ₹500. In addition, financial
assistance to ‘women in distress’ and ‘divyangjan’ is being
increased from ₹2,500 to ₹3,000 per month. A budget of ₹3,227
crore has been allocated for all these schemes.


6. A budget of ₹20 crore has allocated under the ‘GIA to Recreation
Centres for Senior Citizens’ scheme to provide special facilities for
relaxation and social activities to senior citizens.


7. As I mentioned earlier, to recognise and honour women’s unpaid
domestic labour, we have decided to launch the “Mahila Samridhi

                                 33
Yojana”. A budget of ₹5,100 crore has been allocated under this
scheme, which will provide monthly assistance of ₹2,500 to eligible
women. This move will help enhance women’s economic
independence, decision-making capacity and self-esteem.


8. In addition, special schemes have been made for pregnant
women and newborns. While the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana
Yojana will be implemented in Delhi, the Mukhyamantri Matru
Vandana Yojana (MMMVY) is also being launched, for which a
provision of ₹210 crore has been allocated. Under this scheme,
financial assistance of up to ₹21,000 and 6 nutrition kits will be
provided to 1 lakh beneficiaries.


9. A budget of ₹50 crore has proposed under ‘Palna – National
Creche Scheme’. Under this scheme, 500 Palna-Anganwadi-cum-
Crèche Centres will be set up to enable mothers to remain part of
the workforce after the birth of their children.


10. In addition, a budget of ₹206 crore has been proposed for the
‘Saksham Anganwadi and Poshan 2 Scheme’. Under this scheme,
1000 Anganwadi centres will be upgraded into Saksham
Anganwadi Centres. Better infrastructure, modern facilities and
high-level service delivery will be ensured in these Anganwadi
centres. Internet Wi-fi connectivity, LED screens, water purifiers,
smart learning aids, audio-visual aids and modern resources will
be provided for the holistic development of children. These will be
co-located with other government buildings. These Anganwadi


                                34
centres will be linked to nearby government schools, so that
children can be easily transferred to regular schools.


11. ‘Sakhi Niwas Yojana’ is being run with the aim of providing safe,
secure and affordable housing to women. Under this scheme, safe
hostels will be provided for working women and girl students
pursuing higher education and day-care facilities for their children.
At present, 14 working women hostels are operating in Delhi, in
which 1,935 women are availing these facilities. To increase the
participation of women in the workforce, 2 new 'Sakhi Niwas' will
be started.


12. A budget of ₹5 crore has been allocated for the rehabilitation of
homeless people in Delhi. Under this scheme, not only shelter will
be provided, but vocational training and skill building programs will
also be run, so that they can earn their own livelihood.


13. 'Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Stipend Scheme' is being started to
empower Scheduled Caste (SC) students. A budget of ₹5 crore has
allocated for this scheme. Under this scheme, Scheduled Caste
students pursuing technical and vocational education in ITI, Skill
Centers and Polytechnics of Delhi will be given a monthly stipend
of ₹1,000.


14. In addition, a budget of ₹2 crore has been allocated under the
‘GIA for Revamping of DSFDC’ scheme to improve DSFDC.


                                 35
15. Our government is fully dedicated to empowering every village
and farmer of Delhi. To achieve this, a total budget of ₹1,157 crore
has been allocated to the Development Department, out of which
₹1,082 crore has been allocated for various schemes and projects.


16. A provision of ₹4.85 crore has been made under the ‘PM Kisan
Samman Nidhi State Top-up Scheme’. Under this scheme, farmers
will be provided ₹3,000 annually (in three installments of ₹1,000) in
addition to the ₹6,000 annual assistance under the ‘Pradhan Mantri
Kisan Samman Nidhi’ scheme. This initiative will prove to be an
important step towards strengthening the economic condition of
farmers and encouraging the agriculture sector.


17. A budget of ₹40 crore has been allocated to set up a ‘Model
Gaushala' equipped with modern facilities in Ghumanhera village
of Delhi. Modern facilities will be provided in this Gaushala for cow
protection, milk production and veterinary care.


18. A budget of ₹1,000 crore has been allocated for the overall
development of rural and urban villages of Delhi. This amount will
be used for the development of roads, drainage, street lights,
community buildings and other basic facilities.




                                 36
SEAMLESS CONNECTIVITY-
New Era of Public Transport
1. Currently, Delhi has the third largest electric bus fleet in the
world, comprising 2,152 electric buses. This includes 1,752 electric
buses under DTC and 400 electric buses under DIMTS- Cluster
scheme. Further, the fleet is expected to add more than 5000
electric buses by FY 2025-26 and aims to achieve the second
largest electric bus fleet globally.


2. DMRC is operating a 394.25 km metro network with 289 stations.
60% of the work of Phase-4 - 03 priority corridors has already been
completed. Along with this, the work of the Balanced 03 corridors
of Phase-4 i.e. Lajpat Nagar - Saket G Block, Inderlok -
Indraprastha, Rithala - Bawana - Narela - Nathupur (Kundli) will be
started in 2025-26. ₹2929.66 crore has been allocated for Delhi
Metro.


3. Urban transport projects will be implemented in the capital with
the funding of the Government of India. ₹1,000 crore has been
allocated for these centrally funded projects.


4. A budget outlay of ₹12,952 crore has been targeted for the
financial year 2025-26 to improve Delhi's public transport system.


5. Today, Delhi is moving rapidly towards a smart, green and
sustainable public transport system. Our goal is to make
transportation more convenient, pollution-free and world-class.


                                 37
EFFICIENT IRRIGATION AND FLOOD CONTROL-
Improvement in irrigation, solution to floods, lives of the
capital will be safe


1. Speaker Sir, Chanakya said: "For the progress of a country,
the king of that country should be aware of the coming
disasters in advance and try to eliminate them before time,
eliminate all obstacles in economic progress and try to reduce
the loss of revenue."


2. Delhi has been facing trouble instead of relief during the rains.
Waterlogging on roads, flood-like conditions, headlights of vehicles
submerged in stagnant water and pictures of sinking roads—this
has become the identity of our capital.


3. Waterlogging and poor drainage system has been a serious
problem in Delhi, which leads to flood-like situation every year. 3
crore population of Delhi's has to face a lot of troubles every year
during the rainy season. People had started saying that - the rainy
season in Delhi is worst. But in reality the rain was not bad, but the
administration of the previous governments of Delhi was bad. They
never tried to eliminate the root of this problem, due to which
waterlogging on the roads of Delhi was very common .


4. But our government is fully committed to eradicate this problem
from its root. In this context, a total budget of ₹ 603 crore has been

                                  38
allocated for the Irrigation and Flood Control Department, out of
which ₹315 crore has been allocated for various schemes.


5. To tackle this problem, we have proposed an ambitious scheme
of “Remodeling of Drains for Flood Control”, for which a budget of
₹150 crore has been allocated. The main objective of this project
is to increase the water carrying capacity of the drains, so that the
problem of waterlogging during the rainy season can be prevented.


6. Along with this, we are also planning to clean and desilting open
water bodies for flood control.


7. Apart from this, modern machinery will also be procured, so that
waterlogging can be controlled and flood control can be made more
effective.




                                 39
POWER, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT, GREEN GROWTH
AND POLLUTION CONTROL-
Green Delhi, Clean Air, Sustainable Development


1. The Delhi government is committed to providing uninterrupted
and affordable electricity to every citizen of the capital. This budget
is an important step towards making Delhi self-reliant in the field of
energy and a clean future.


2. In this regard, a budget of ₹3,847 crore has been allocated to
the Power Department for various schemes and projects.


3. My government aims to provide 24-hour uninterrupted electricity
to every citizen of Delhi. To meet the increasing demand for
electricity and support the economic growth of the capital, it is
necessary to increase domestic power generation from clean/
renewable energy sources.


4. The Delhi government is in the process of signing a MoU with
the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy of the Central
Government to implement the ‘PM Surya Ghar: Free Electricity
Scheme’ in Delhi. Under this scheme, a subsidy of up to ₹78,000
will be provided to the residential consumers of Delhi.


5. To make this initiative more effective, my government is
proposed a new scheme called ‘PM Surya Ghar: Free Electricity
                                  40
Scheme – State Top Up’, for which a budget of ₹50 crore has been
allocated. Under this scheme, 2.3 lakh residential rooftops will be
equipped with solar energy in the next three years.


6. Overhead electricity wires not only deface the beauty of the city
but are also risky from the security point of view. Therefore, my
government has proposed ‘Shifting of HT/LT Transmission Lines’
scheme, for which a budget of ₹100 crore has been allocated.
Under this scheme, all overhead cables will be laid underground,
making Delhi more secure, cleaner and modern city. Delhi is now
on its way to becoming an energy-smart city – where every home
will be illuminated every industry will flourish and the future will be
brightened by green energy. Speaker Sir, climate change is not a
future concern but a present crisis. The poison dissolved in Delhi's
air is not just a number but a slow poison that enters the lungs of
every citizen. It has become a question not just of the environment
but of survival!


7. Keeping air quality of Delhi and water resources clean and
protected is one of the top priorities of our government. Delhi is
facing serious environmental challenges like air and water
pollution. Also, waste management is also one of the major
problems of Delhi.


8. To deal with these challenges, we need monitoring of
environmental parameters and time-bound implementation of
projects. For this purpose, our government has made a provision
of ₹506 crore for the Environment and Forest departments, out of
                                  41
which ₹422 crore has been allocated for various schemes, projects
and programmes.


9. A provision of ₹300 crore has allocated under “Pollution Control
and Emergency measures” to effectively implement environmental
reforms in Delhi.


10. Also, a budget of ₹20 crore has allocated under the “Delhi Parks
and Garden Society” scheme to provide more financial assistance
to RWAs, NGOs and societies and to make Delhi's parks and
gardens green.


11. To increase Delhi's green cover, control air pollution and
promote urban biodiversity, our government has set a target of
planting 70 lakh saplings. This campaign will be run on a large
scale throughout the city and at the same time, proper maintenance
of the existing plants will also be done.


12. Along with this, 6 new CAAQM (Continuous Ambient Air Quality
Monitoring) stations will be installed at strategic locations in Delhi
for real-time monitoring of air pollution and data-driven decision
making.


13. Not only this, for the first time 32 Water Quality Monitoring
Stations will be installed in Delhi. These stations will be installed in
Yamuna river and various drains, so that real-time monitoring of

                                   42
water quality can be done. There will be advanced sensors, which
will monitor the pollution. Auto alerts will be sent from these stations
to various departments, so that action can be taken to control water
pollution in time.


14. A proposal has also been made to establish an “Integrated
Command and Control Center (ICCC)” in Delhi. This centre will do
real-time monitoring of various environmental parameters like air
quality, water quality, noise levels, waste management etc. This will
help in improving environmental governance and public health.


15. Our efforts will not only reduce pollution but will also provide a
clean and healthy environment to the coming generations.




                                   43
SMART AND GOOD GOVERNANCE – ‘Perform, Reform and
Transform’ mantra for good governance


1. Prime Minister Shri Narendra           Modi    has   said   about
governance/good governance –


“We have also changed the mindset of power. We have come
with the service mindset. We have made welfare of poor our
medium. We have made satisfaction, not appeasement, our
basis.”


2. The office of the Deputy Commissioner plays an important
coordinating role between various departments and agencies at the
district level. To strengthen this collaborative role of the District
Magistrate, I propose the “District Project Fund Scheme”, which will
be for small-scale works that require quick financial assistance. For
this purpose, I propose to allocate Rs 53 crore.


3. Being the National Capital, Delhi is highly vulnerable to various
disasters. Delhi lacks a unified command and control centre to
coordinate disaster response among various agencies. A state-of-
the-art Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) has been proposed
to provide a single emergency number for better crisis
management. An amount of ₹30 crore has been allocated for
setting up Command Control Centres, EOC under DDMA. These
centres will be equipped with latest machinery and ICT equipment.


                                 44
4. As per previous recommendations, Rs 6897 crore has been
proposed to the local bodies in the financial year 2025-26. Out of
this, Rs 3,560 crore will be for education, healthcare and sanitation.
Rs 3,337 crore will be given in the form of Basic Tax Assignment
(BTA). Besides this Rs 3,640 crore will be given as stamp and
registration fees and one-time parking charges.


5. Sir, there is a plan to enhance the Court Infrastructure by adding
200 more court rooms to the existing 690 court halls in Delhi,
especially at Shastri Park, Karkardooma and Rohini, for which a
budget provision of ₹490 crore has been made. The required
manpower is being enhanced at the level of Judicial Officer as well
as Support Court Staff to address delays in the judicial delivery
system in Delhi.


6. A budget provision of ₹200 crore has been made to set up Hybrid
System of Courts.


7. We have given special attention to sensitive cases and sections
in this budget. In collaboration with the Hon’ble Delhi High Court,
the Department is working to increase the number of judges
handling sensitive cases through dedicated POCSO courts to
ensure speedy justice to child victims and to expedite trials against
drug syndicates through special NDPS courts.


8. Also, ₹927 crore has been budgeted for various judicial schemes
in the financial year 2025-26.

                                  45
9. Fire incidents in small lanes/congested areas is one of the major
concerns of this government. Two-wheelers will be introduced as
the first vehicle in densely populated areas and narrow lanes to
tackle fire incidents in these areas. To improve the response time
and effectiveness of Delhi fire services, the department has
proposed to deploy small fire engines at 100 locations in congested
and remote areas.


10. Procurement of 17 Water Bowsers. High-end equipment like
multi articulated fire towers, aerial ladder platforms, Hazmat vans,
etc. will be procured under the first phase of adopting modern
technology for fire services. High pressure pumps will be installed
using the latest technology in 24 multi utility vehicles. Live cameras
will be installed in the vehicles for analysis of sensitive/immediate
response to fire accidents. A budget of ₹110 crore has been
allocated for these capital schemes in Delhi Fire services.


11. In this budget proposal, upgradation of existing Delhi Fire
Station Headquarters building to multi-storey is also proposed.


12. A consultant will be appointed to ensure highest level of
accuracy in dispatch, upgradation of Delhi Fire Service Control
Room, provision for AI based solutions and simplification and
automation of application process for issuance of fire safety
certificate.




                                  46
13. ₹125 crore has been proposed for capital projects under Delhi
Fire services.


14. It is proposed to increase the authorized number of Home
Guards Volunteers in Delhi from the existing 10,285 to 25,000.
Thus, additional 15000 Home Guards Volunteers will contribute in
enhancing public safety in coordination with Delhi Police, DTC and
other departments.


15. A budget of ₹2 crore has been allocated for organising job fairs
with an aim to provide jobs to unemployed youth of Delhi in a time
bound manner.


16. Sir, Delhi has a large population of informal sector workers
engaged in a wide range of activities, most of which are related to
essential services. There are gig and platform workers, domestic
helpers, auto taxi drivers etc., who have not been covered under
any social security scheme so far. To prevent exploitation of these
workers by individuals/agencies, our Government has decided to
set up a Welfare Board for Informal Sector Workers, for which I
propose a sum of ₹10 crore in the financial year 2025-26.


17. Budget of ₹15 crore is proposed for developing Delhi 311 App
for effective and timely redressal of grievances under various
departments of Delhi Government, which will be similar to NDMC-
311 running in NDMC area. Call centre under Delhi 311 App will be
one of the mediums for receiving complaints. In this regard, the call

                                 47
centre helpline number 1031 will be integrated with the Delhi 311
app.


18. ₹10 crore has been allocated to launch the Chief Minister’s
Young Visionaries Innovation Programme with the objective of
engaging new young visionaries from various fields. The
programme aims to harness the energy and innovative ideas of the
young visionaries of India, which will be implemented in policy and
decision making, to make Delhi a smart, clean, caring and
prosperous metropolis.


19. A society will be set up under the aegis of Delhi Jail. This society
will work for the reformation and rehabilitation of prisoners by
developing their overall skills through various skill imparting
programmes and will professionalize the functioning of various
factories and manufacturing units of the jails. The products
manufactured in the jail complexes of Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli will
be given preference in procurement by offices, ministries and
departments working under the Delhi government.


20. In order to decongest the existing Tihar Jail Complex for the
welfare of prisoners, a new scheme for development of new Jail
Complex by shifting the existing Tihar Jail Complex to some other
location has been formulated. An outlay of ₹10 crore is proposed
under this scheme for consultation and survey work.




                                   48
21. Also, proposal for Renovation & Alteration of Lampur
Restriction/Detention Centre from 01-04-2025. An outlay of ₹20
crore is proposed under this scheme.




                              49
                             VISION
Speaker Sir, apart from this, there are other schemes in the vision
of our government which I would like to mention briefly.

1. 'Vivaad se Vishwaas' scheme for middle class traders
For our trader brothers and sisters, whose hard work and honesty
is making Delhi's business flourish, we will bring the 'Vivaad se
Vishwaas' scheme. Under this scheme, old VAT cases will be
resolved amicably, so that traders get relief from pending lawsuits
cases. This scheme will not only increase the confidence of traders,
but also increase the revenue of the state government. Justice and
peace are the ideal of Ramrajya, we stand with the business class
with the same ideal.

2. The benefits of the scheme should reach the target
beneficiaries.
An important objective of our government is that the benefits of
government schemes should reach to those who are actually
deserving. The AAP government ran Delhi's schemes under vote
bank politics, which not only deprived the people of Delhi, but also
the benefits of the schemes reached the ineligible people. We will
now launch a vigorous verification campaign, so that the benefits
of the schemes reach only the genuine Delhiites, And illegal
immigrants from outside Delhi borders, especially Bangladeshis
and Rohingyas, did not get benefits under any scheme.




                                 50
3. Two medical colleges will be opened in Delhi
We will establish two medical colleges to improve health services
in Delhi. This will provide high quality medical education to the
people of Delhi and provide new employment opportunities to the
youth in the medical field. While the AAP government has never
taken any strong steps in the health sector, we are determined to
provide better treatment and medical education to the people of
Delhi. It is our aim to make Delhi a hub of health and education,
and this initiative will give the youth of Delhi an opportunity to excel
in the medical field.


4. The need of State Guest House will be fulfilled.
It is a matter of great shame that Delhi does not have a State Guest
House till date, which is essential for prestige of any state. We will
soon build a magnificent State Guest House in Delhi, so that the
guests coming to Delhi can get proper respect and facilities.

5. Auditoriums and stadiums will be opened in Delhi
Our government will build auditoriums and stadiums on a large
scale to promote entertainment and sports activities in Delhi. These
auditoriums and stadiums will not only increase interest in sports
but also promote cultural activities. We will build a Delhi where
every youth gets respect for his talent, and every citizen gets a
platform to prove his potential.

6. ISBT:
We will redevelop Anand Vihar ISBT and Sarai Kale Khan ISBT in
Delhi and open a new ISBT in Dwarka.

                                   51
Summing Up:
 1. Speaker Sir, this budget is not an isolated or random
    document. Rather it has a balanced mix of everything. It has
    the goal of flying high in innovation and infrastructure, while
    ground realities like special allocation for the deprived and
    model Gaushala have also been taken care of. Overall - this
    budget has height as well as depth!


 2. Today, on this auspicious occasion, when I am presenting this
    historic budget to the people of Delhi, it is not just an annual
    financial plan, but a blueprint for the future of the capital. This
    budget is a resolution to realize the dream of self-reliant Delhi,
    which is linked to the inspiration of Prime Minister Shri
    Narendra Modi ji and his vision of 'Developed India'.


 3. Speaker Sir, in this budget we have set some objectives. With
    this budget, Delhi will now become the capital of progress, not
    just politics. Now instead of announcements, plans will be
    implemented. Delhi will now become the capital of intentions,
    not promises.


 4. The Double Engine government will take New Delhi forward
    at the speed of Bullet Train and Delhi will emerge as the
    'Growth Engine' of the country.




                                 52
5. Speaker Sir, whenever I look at the history of Delhi, I
   remember the lines of the famous poet Bashir Badr:


                 “िदल की ब    ी पुरानी िद   ी है

                जो भी गुज़रा है उस ने लू टा है ।”


6. Speaker Sir, Delhi has been devastated dozens of times by
   foreign invaders. Be it Mongols or Afghans, Mughals or British
   - everyone looted Delhi and left after ruining it. The same has
   been done to Delhi by the state governments in the last few
   years.


7. Delhi is a city that has seen itself being destroyed and being
   improved again and again. History is a witness that whether it
   is the havoc of Taimur, the looting of Nadir Shah or the
   barbarity of Ahmed Shah Abdali - every time Delhi has
   forgotten its wounds and regained its glory.


8. This city of Delhi has been a symbol of Bharatiya or Sanatan
   Resilience. Whenever it was devastated, it stood up again.
   Delhi is a symbol of national consciousness and
   reconstruction. Delhi has stood up again and has embarked
   on the path of reconstruction.




                               53
9.   Speaker Sir, Delhi has never been just a city of buildings, it is
     a reflection of the soul of India. Here even the ruins write
     history, and the walls also tell stories. Who-so-ever looted
     Delhi get destroyed itself but Delhi flourished everytime.


10. Today Delhi has risen again – to regain its lost glory, to build
    its future on the foundation of reconstruction.


11. In the last few years, Delhi has again fallen prey to loot and
    mismanagement. Those who looted the public's money, came
    to power on the basis of false promises and empty claims.
    Delhi's treasury was emptied, prosperity was destroyed,
    cultural identity was erased, development was stalled and the
    rights of Delhiites were looted.


12. But now, with new thinking, new resolve and honest
    leadership, Delhi will rise again. Today's budget is not just a
    document of figures, but the foundation stone of Delhi's
    rebirth. Now every resource will be used in the interest of the
    citizens of Delhi, every policy will be made with transparency
    and accountability. We have resolved that Delhi will not be just
    a metropolis, but will become the identity of the nation's
    progress and good governance.


13. This budget is not just an economic document, but the clarion
    call of Delhi's rebirth. Now Delhi will neither stop nor halt - it
    will run, it will shine, it will create history!

                                  54
      Udyamena hi siddhyayanti, Karyaani na manorathai -
      Meaning, works are successful only with hard work, not by
      thinking in the mind. With this spirit, our government will serve
      the people of Delhi and will not leave any stone unturned in
      its hard work, no matter what happens.


14.   Speaker Sir, I would like to conclude my budget speech with
      these lines:


“हवा का ख बदल दे ने का हौसला भी है ताकत भी, िनभाते ह अगर कोई भी वादा
कर िलया हमने।
सफर अपना िकसी तूफान के डर से नही ं कता, इरादा कर िलया तो िफर इरादा कर
िलया हमने।”


15.   With these sentiments, I present the budget proposals for the
      consideration and approval of the honorable House with the
      recommendation to accept them.


      Bharat Mata ki Jai!




                      ****************************




                                   55
