UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
                                                          MEMORANDUM & ORDER
              -against-                                        24-CR-0433 (NGG)
GAUTAM S. ADANI, SAGAR R. ADANI, VNEET
S. JAAIN, RANJIT GUPTA, CYRIL CABANES,
SAURABH AGARWAL, DEEPAK MALHOTRA,
and RUPESH AGARWAL,
                            Defendants.


     NICHOLAS G. GARAUFIS, United States District Judge.
     Pursuant to Rule 48(a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Proce-
     dure, the United States of America by and through R.
     Trent McCotter of the U.S. Department of Justice (the "Depart-
     ment") moves to dismiss the Indictment with prejudice as against
     all Defendants: Gautam S. Adani, Sagar R. Adani, Vneet S. Jaain,
     Ranjit Gupta, Cyril Cabanes, Saurabh Agarwal, Deepak Mal-
     hotra, and Rupesh Agarwal (collectively, "Defendants"). 1 (Dept's
     Rule 48(a) Mot. to Dismiss Indictment C'Rule 48(a) Mot.")
     (Dkt. 23).)

     For the reasons explained below, the court GRANTS IN PART the
     Department's Rule 48(a) Motion. 2 Counts Two, Three, and Four
     of the Indictment as alleged against Defendants Gautam Adani,
     Sagar Adani, and Jaain (collectively, "Appearing Defendants")

     1 All subsequent references to Rules are to the Federal Rules of Criminal

     Procedure. When quoting cases, unless otherwise noted, all alterations are
     adopted and all citations, emphases, internal quotation marks, and ellipses
     are omitted.
     2 Although this case was not formally transferred from the U.S. Attorney's

     Office for the Eastern District ofNewYork to the Department (as was the
     case in, for example, United States v. Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d 185, 200
     (S.D.N.Y. 2025)), it is clear that the pending Motion is that of the Depart-
     ment alone. For details, see infra Section I.F.




                                          1
are DISMISSED WITH PREJUDICE. The court RESERVES JUDG-
MENT as to the portions of the Motion regarding Counts One and
Five as alleged against Defendants Gupta, Cabanes,
Saurabh Agarwal, Malhotra, and Rupesh Agarwal (collectively,
"Non-Appearing Defendants"), pending the Department's fulfill-
ment of Rule 48(a)'s requirements.

I.   BACKGROUND3

     A. The Indictment
On October 24, 2024, a grand jury sitting in the Eastern District
of NewYork returned an indictment against Defendants under




3
  Unless otherwise noted, the facts below are taken directly from the par-
ties' filings in this criminal case and in the related civil enforcement actions
also pending before this court: Securities and Exchange Commission v. Adani
et al., No. 24-CV-8080 (NGG) (JRC) (the "Adani SEC Action") and Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission etal. v. Cabanes, No. 24-CV-8081 (NGG)
(JRC) (the "Cabanes SEC Action"). Hereinafter, all citations to docket en-
tries in theAdaniSECAction are cited as "[Document Name] (Dkt. [Docket
Number]) inAdani SEC Action." The court follows the same convention for
citations to docket entries in the Cabanes SEC Action.
The filings in these three related cases are not voluminous. Thus, the court
exercised its discretion to perform a limited review of the publicly accessi-
ble documents referenced or quoted in, but not attached to, the parties'
submissions. The court includes these facts here for the sole purpose of
providing a complete narrative. However, in deciding the Rule 48(a) Mo-
tion, infra Section III, the court considers and relies only on the parties'
filings in this case. The court does so even though nothing in Rule 48(a) or
the relevant case law prevents a court from looking beyond the parties'
filings to other publicly available information. See Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d
at 208-09; see also 3B Charles Alan Wright & Arthur R. Miller Fed. Prac. &
Proc. Crim. § 802 n.10 (4th ed. April 2026 Update) (hereinafter ''Wright &
Miller'') ("There is no binding law preventing the court from investigating
whether the government's motion to dismiss the indictment was brought
in bad faith.").




                                      2
seal. (Indictment (Dkt. 1).) Arrest warrants for all Defendants
were issued later that day. 4 (Arrest Warrants (Dkts. 2-9).)
 As alleged in the Indictment, Defendants are all non-U.S. citizens
 and current or former executives and employees of various busi-
 ness entities with ties to India, the United States, and Canada.
Appearing Defendants are senior executives of the India-based
 conglomerate, the Adani Group. (Indictment 'T'T 2, 8-10; see also
 Compl. 'T'T 1-2, 15-20 (Dkt. 1) in Adani SEC Action ("Adani SEC
 Compl.").) At all relevant times, Appearing Defendants were also
senior executives of the Group's subsidiary, Adani Green Energy
 Ltd. ("Adani Green")-a renewable-energy company headquar-
tered in India. (Indictment 'T'T 2-3, 8-10; Adani SEC Compl. 'T'l 1-
3, 15-16, 18, 20.) Notwithstanding that Adani Green operates in
India and is publicly traded on Indian exchanges, the company
has received millions (if not billions) of dollars in financing from
lenders, banks, and investors in the United States. (Indictment
'T'T 3, 88, 90, 101, 109, 113; Adani SEC Compl. 'T'T 18, 127-30.)
Non-Appearing Defendant Gupta is the former Chief Executive
Officer of Azure Global Power Limited (the "U.S. Issuer'')-a re-
newable-energy company that produces solar power in India, is
incorporated in Mauritius, and was a U.S. Issuer with registered
securities traded on the New York Stock Exchange until Novem-
ber 2023 that was required to file periodic reports with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") through April
2024. 5 (Indictment 'T'T 4, 11; Adani SEC Compl. 'I 21; Compl.

4 As of this Memorandum & Order, the arrest warrants remain outstand-

ing. According to Mccotter, that is because Defendants are "all foreign
nationals who live abroad in locations that offer no reasonable prospect of
arrest." (McCotter Ltr. (Dkt. 37) at 7.)
5 The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") defines U.S. Issuer to mean

a company with securities registered in the United States. By opting into
the U.S. public markets, a U.S. Issuer also opts into certain reporting prac-
tices and good governance standards, including not to bribe "any foreign
official" for various statutorily defined purposes. 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-l (a).




                                     3
'f'f 2, 14 (Dkt. 1) in Cabanes SEC Action ("Cabanes SEC
Compl.") .) Defendant Gupta is also the former Managing Direc-
tor of the U.S. Issuer's majority-owned and controlled subsidiary,
which built and operated renewable-energy projects in India. (In-
dictment 'f'f 5, 11.) Non-Appearing Defendant Rupesh Agarwal
held various executive positions at both the U.S. Issuer and the
U.S. Issuer's subsidiary between 2022 and 2023. (Id. If 15.) Non-
Appearing Defendants Cabanes and Malhotra are former Direc-
tors of the U.S. Issuer and served on its Board of Directors
between 2019 and 2023. (Id. 'f'f 12, 14; Cabanes SEC Compl.
'f'f 1, 13.) Finally, Non-Appearing Defendant SaurabhAgarwal
reported to Defendant Cabanes between May 2017 and July
2023. (Indictment If 13.)
The 54-page Indictment details serious accusations of foreign
corrupt practices, fraud, obstruction, and conspiracy between
2020 and 2024 in furtherance of three alleged schemes: (1) to
pay "approximately $265 million in bribes" to Indian government
officials for "lucrative" solar energy contracts with Indian govern-
ment entities, (the ''bribery scheme"); (2) to lie to U.S. and
international investors to raise ''billions of dollars in financing,"
 (the "fraud scheme"); and (3) to impede the investigations of
three U.S. government entities, (the "obstruction scheme"). (Id.
'f'f 1, 49, 135.) As alleged, beginning in 2020, Defendants en-
tered into an agreement to carry out the bribery scheme using
the corporate entities identified above; between 2020 and 2024,
Appearing Defendants facilitated the bribery payments and then
lied to U.S. lenders and investors to keep the payments concealed
and secure almost $4 billion in financing; and starting in 2022,
Non-Appearing Defendants Cabanes, Saurabh Agarwal, Mal-
hotra, and Rupesh Agarwal agreed to destroy and suppress
evidence and to provide false information to the grand jury, the
Federal Bureau of Investigations ("FBI"), and the SEC to ensure
that the schemes' objectives were accomplished. (See id. 'f'f 37-




                                 4
84; see also Adani SEC Compl. 'f'f 1-7; Cabanes SEC Compl. 'f'f 3-
6.)

Based on these allegations, the Indictment charges five counts:
(1) Count One: Conspiracy to Violate the Foreign Corrupt Prac-
tices Act ("FCPA"); (2) Count Two: Securities Fraud Conspiracy;
(3) Count Three: Wire Fraud Conspiracy; (4) Count Four: Secu-
rities Fraud; and (5) Count Five: Conspiracy to Obstruct Justice.
(Indictment 'f'f 124-35.) Count One is alleged against Non-Ap-
pearing Defendants. (Id. 'f'f 124-26.) Counts Two, Three, and
Four are alleged against Appearing Defendants. (Id. 'f'f 127-33.)
Count Five is alleged against four of the five Non-Appearing De-
fendants: Defendants Cabanes, Saurabh Agarwal, Malhotra, and
Rupesh Agarwal. (Id. 'f'f 134-35.)
      B. Subsequent Events
Shortly after the grand jury returned the Indictment, Donald J.
Trump was elected President of the United States. On Novem-
ber 6, 2024, Defendant Gautam Adani congratulated the
President-elect and posted on X:
      If there is one person on Earth who stands as the em-
      bodiment of unbreakable tenacity, unshakeable grit,
      relentless determination and the courage to stay true to
      his beliefs, it is Donald Trump. Fascinating to see Amer-
      ica's democracy empower its people and uphold the
      nation's founding principles. Congratulations to the
      4 7th POTUS-elect @realDonaldTrump. 6
On November 13, 2024, Defendant Gautam Adani congratulated
the President-elect again and announced his commitment to in-
vest $10 billion in the United States:



6  GautamAdani (@gautam_adani), X (Nov. 6, 2024, 12:54 P.M.),
https://perma.cc/2PR4-J1N3.




                                 5
        Congratulations to @realDonaldTrump. As the partner-
        ship between India and the United States deepens, the
        Adani Group is committed to leveraging its global exper-
        tise and invest $10 billion in US energy security and
        resilient infrastructure projects, aiming to create up to
        15,000 jobs. I N • us. 7
On November 20, 2024, the Indictment was unsealed. Then-
U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Breon Peace;
then-Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Department's
Criminal Division, Lisa H. Miller; and then-Assistant Director in
Charge for the FBI's NewYork Field Office, James E. Dennehy
announced the charges. 8 The officials touted the securing of the
Indictment as an example of the government's "steadfast" com-
mitments to protecting U.S. investors and the integrity of U.S.
financial markets, and to prosecuting conduct that ''violates
U.S. law, no matter where in the world it occurs." 9
That same day, the SEC filed two civil enforcement actions: one
against Appearing Defendants Gautam and Sagar Adani; the
other, against Non-Appearing Defendant Cabanes. (Adani SEC
Compl.; Cabanes SEC Compl.) The SEC actions involve similar
allegations arising from the "same transactions or events" as this
criminal case: the Adanis's and Cabanes's alleged participation in
the bribery scheme and in the fraud scheme, including their false

7 GautamAdani (@gautam_adani), X (Nov. 13, 2024, 12:44 P.M.),
https://perma.cc/Q3PM-FTRL. This X post is partially quoted in Defendant
Gautam Adani's affirmation and in Mr. Giuffra's declaration; both omit
Mr. Adani's congratulations to and tagging of President Trump. (G. Adani
Aff. (Dkt. 40-1) '13; Giuffra Deel. (Dkt. 40-2) '19.)
8 Press Release, U.S. Atty's Office, E.D.N.Y., Billionaire Chairman of Con-

glomerate and Seven Other Senior Business Executives Indicted in Connection
with Scheme to Pay Hundreds of Millions of Dollars in Bribes and Conceal
Bribery    Scheme     from     U.S.     Investors      (Nov. 20,    2024),
https://perma.cc/R2UA-LYVB?type =image.
9 Id.




                                    6
representations to U.S. investors that they and Adani Green had
not "paid or promised to pay bribes or sought to unduly influence
government officials," they and Adani Green had not "violated
applicable antibribery laws," and Adani Green had "rigorous and
effective anti-bribery policies and procedures." 10 (SEC Ltr. to
Hon. Vera M. Scanlon Dated 12/5/2024 (Dkt. 22-1) at 1; see al.so
Adani SEC Compl. 'f'f 62-88 (bribery), 89-126 (fraud); Cabanes
SEC Compl. 'f'f 35-87 (bribery).)
In December 2024, the two SEC actions were judicially deter-
mined to be "related" to this criminal case and assigned to the
Honorable Nicholas G. Garaufis. 11
Despite regular status reports from the SEC, neither the U.S. At-
torney's Office nor the Department took any action on the docket
in this case between unsealing the Indictment in November 2024
and filing the Rule 48(a) Motion in May 2026. During that time,
President Trump took office and his Administration put out new
policies for the Department's enforcement of the FCPA.
     C. Intervening Changes to FCPA Enforcement
On February 10, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order
14209, entitled "Pausing [FCPA] Enforcement to Further Ameri-
can Economic and National Security," (the "Executive Order"). 12
In relevant part, the Executive Order directed the Department to


10 According to the SEC complaints, Adani Green, the U.S. Issuer, and their

"executives and agents" agreed to, and did, pay the approximately
$250 million in bribes to Indian state officials. (Adani SEC Compl. '!'I 6, 71-
72, 81-86, 131-35; Cabanes SEC Compl. '1'11-8, 24-87.)
11 (Text Order Dated 12/12/2024 inAdani SEC Action; Order Reassigning

Case Dated 12/18/2024 in Adani SEC Action; Order Reassigning Case
Dated 12/18/2024 in Cabanes SEC Action; see also SEC's Not. of Request
for Judicial Determination that Civil Cases are 'Related' (Dkt. 22) .)
12 Exec.Order No. 14209 § 2, 90 FR 9587 (Feb. 10, 2025) (hereinafter
"Exec. Order'').




                                      7
within 180 days: (1) "review in detail all existing FCPA ... en-
forcement actions and take appropriate action with respect to
such matters"; and (2) "issue updated guidelines or policies" gov-
erning FCPA enforcement. 13
On June 9, 2025, pursuant to the Executive Order, Deputy Attor-
ney General (then, also Acting U.S. Attorney General 14 )
Todd Blanche issued a memorandum entitled "Guidelines for In-
vestigations and Enforcement of the [FCPA]," (the "Blanche
Memorandum") .15 To "ensure that FCPA investigations and pros-
ecutions are carried out in accordance with President Trump's
directive," the Blanche Memorandum reoriented the Depart-
ment's approach to the FCPA by requiring prosecutors to evaluate
four non-exhaustive factors when considering whether to initiate
a new FCPA investigation or to pursue an already existing FCPA
enforcement action, including this case. (Blanche Mem. at 4.)




13 Id.

14 Blanche was confirmed as U.S. Attorney General on Saturday, August 8,

2026.
15 Memorandum for Head of the Criminal Division from the Deputy Attor-

ney General on Guidelines for Investigations and Enforcement of the
Foreign     Corrupt  Practices   Act     (FCPA)    (June 9,  2025),
https://perma.cc/87LQ-BQ6J (hereinafter "Blanche Mem.").




                                   8
On August 9, 2025, the Executive Order's 180-day deadline to
"review," and "take appropriate action" in, all existing FCPA en-
forcement actions expired. 16 (Id. at 1 (quoting Exec. Order§ 2).)
The Department took no action to pursue or abandon this case. 17
     D. The Lead-Up to the Rule 48(a) Motion
In August 2025, Defendant Gautam Adani retained Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP ("S&C''). (Giuffra Deel. (Dkt. 40-2) 'f 1.) Defend-
ant Gautam Adani's attorney Robert J. Giuffra, also serves as
personal attorney for President Trump. 18
Five months later, in January 2026, McCotter-the former Direc-
tor of the Separation of Powers Clinic at the Catholic University
of America's Columbus School of Law-began in the Office of the
Deputy Attorney General. 19 (McCotter Ltr. (Dkt. 37) at 6.) He




16 The Executive Order authorized the "Attorney General [to] extend [the]

review period for an additional 180 days." Exec. Order § 2 (b). Even if then-
Acting Attorney General Blanche extended the review period (the court
has been given no evidence to believe that he did), the additional 180-day
review period would have ended on February 5, 2026-before Mccotter
filed the Rule 48(a) Motion.
17 Such action would be taken nearly a year later, when Mccotter filed the

Rule 48(a) Motion in May 2026.
18 Erica Orden,   Trump's Personal Law Firm Has a Pipeline to Top DOJ Jobs,
POLlTICO (July 12, 2026), https://perma.cc/PW46-XY87; see also Abi-
gail Adcox et al., How Sullivan & Cromwell Has Cemented Itself as Trump's
Favored Law Firm, IAW.COM (June 15, 2026), https://perma.cc/8M7-
ZZL5.
19 In that role, Mccotter submitted an amicus brief in support of the imme-

diate dismissal of the federal indictment against former Mayorof New York
City Eric Adams. Br. of amicus curiae, United States v. Adams, No. 24-CR-
0556 (DEH) (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 26, 2025) (Dkt.143-1). That brief makes many
of the same unsupported arguments found in McCotter's letter to this
court. (Mccotter Ltr. at 1-5.)




                                     9
"had never heard of any defendants in this case." (Id.) Neverthe-
less, "[s]ome of the defense counsel requested a meeting to
discuss the case and why it should be dismissed." (Id.)
Mccotter eventually familiarized himself with the case-with
tremendous help from counsel for Appearing Defendants. (See id.
at 6, 9; see al.so Giuffra Ltr. (Dkt. 35) at 3-4 ("The [Department]
seeks to dismiss the Indictment after months of detailed and ex-
tensive communications and meetings with counsel for
[Appearing] Defendants regarding the law and facts governing
this case.") .)
According to Mr. Giuffra, upon being retained by Defendant Gau-
 tam Adani in August 2025, his team spent "many thousands of
 hours analyzing documents and information related to this case,
conducting careful legal analysis of relevant and controlling
caselaw, and engaging in extensive and substantive discussions
and meetings with representatives of the [Department and] the
SEC," regarding the "securities and loan-related allegations"
charged in Counts Two, Three, and Four of the Indictment and
in the Adani SEC Action. 20 (Giuffra Deel. 'f 5.) Regarding the
charges in this case, S&C "submitted approximately 600 pages of
law, facts, expert testimony, and argument to the [Department]
in ten weeks, between February 3, 2026 and April 17, 2026." (Id.
'f 9.) Specifically, S&C submitted: (1) a 118-page letter, "accom-
panied by a nine-page cover letter"; (2) a "12-page supplemental
submission"; (3) a "95-page slide deck presented in February
2026"; (4) a "copy of a separate 151-page slide deck presented
to the SEC in March 2026"; (5) four expert reports from "U.S.


20 S&C also met with the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets

Control ("OFAC") regarding a "separate economic sanctions-related inves-
tigation involving one of the Adani Group companies [Adani Enterprises]."
(Giuffra Deel. 'I 5); OFAC Settlement Agreement (May 18, 2026),
https://perma.cc/3TF9-QPYV (hereinafter "OFAC Settlement'').




                                  10
and Indian subject matter experts, who wrote and submitted an-
other approximately 200 pages of expert reports"; and (6) a final,
"35-page slide deck presented in April 2026."21 (Id. 'l'l 6-7 & n.1.)
According to Mccotter, he spent "well over a hundred hours re-
viewing and debating" S&C's materials, including in "numerous
meetings with defense counsel (two of which featured a dozen-
plus attorneys) and also separate meetings with only Department
counsel." (Mccotter Ltr. at 6, 10.) After "conducting" these meet-
ings, reviewing additional materials prepared by "defense
counsel and Department counsel in response to [his] questions,"
and completing his "own research and analysis," Mccotter says
that he "determined the security [sic] charges should be
dropped" and "turned to the FCPA charges." (Id. at 6, 8.)
On May 14, 2026, The New York Times reported on the Depart-
ment's plan to dismiss the securities charges. 22 According to
Mccotter, the story was "unethically leaked" by an unidentified
Department attorney and published before "[he] could under-
take a full review'' of the FCPA charges. (Id. at 8.) "Once that
story broke," Mccotter says that "[he] was contacted by defense
counsel for [Non-Appearing] Defendants" who told him that
"they would oppose any dismissal of the securities charges
[Counts Two, Three, and Four] if the FCPA charges [Count One]
were not also dismissed." 23 (Id.) McCotter then "continued [his]
review of the FCPA charges," including "in several meetings with
defense counsel to discuss them." (Id.)

21 The parties have not submitted these documents, nor has the court re-

quested them.
22 Nicole Hong et al., U.S.
                         Set to Drop Charges Against Indian Billionaire
Accused of Fraud, N.Y. Times (May 14, 2026), https://perma.cc/P52A-
6B25.
23 The court has not heard from counsel for Non-Appearing Defendants,

does not know their identities, and does not know the full extent of their
advocacy.




                                   11
Also on May 14, 2026, the SEC filed a motion requesting that this
court approve the proposed Consent Judgments it had executed
with Defendants Gautam and Sagar Adani to settle theAdani SEC
Action. (Giuffra Deel. ff 14 (citing Consent J. (Dkt. 34) in Adani
SEC Action).) In the proposed judgments, the Adanis have agreed
to pay $18 million in civil penalties, and to be enjoined from cer-
tain future U.S. securities law violations, among other settlement
commitments. 24 (Id.)

     E. The Rule 48(a) Motion
On May 18, 2026, McCotter filed the Rule 48(a) Motion request-
ing that the .court dismiss the Indictment with prejudice. The
Motion is signed by McCotter and the current U.S. Attorney for
the Eastern District of New York, Joseph Nocella, Jr. In other
words, no person involved in bringing the charges signed on to
dismiss them. 25
Unlike the SEC's proposed Consent Judgments, the Department's
Rule 48(a) Motion provides no terms of an agreement. Instead,
the one-paragraph Motion states only that "the Department of
Justice has reviewed this case and has decided, in its prosecuto-
rial discretion, not to devote further resources to these criminal
charges against individual defendants."
Also on May 18, 2026, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Of-
fice of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") announced a Settlement

24 On May 30, 2026, the SEC filed revised proposed Consent Judgments,

modified to align with the rescission of SEC Rule 202.S(e), which had re-
quired defendants to agree not to publicly deny complaint allegations as a
condition of settlement. (Consent Mot. for Settlement Submitting Pro-
posed Revised Final Consent Js. (Dkt. 37) inAdani SEC Action.)
25 Two days after Mccotter filed the Rule 48(a) Motion, two Department

counsel involved in bringing the Indictment withdrew: Shy Jackson of the
Criminal Division, Fraud Section's FCPA Unit and AndrewTyler of the
Fraud Section's Market Integrity and Major Frauds Unit. (Nots. of With-
drawal (Dkts. 24, 25) .)




                                   12
Agreement with the Adani Group's "flagship entity,"26 Adani En-
terprises Limited, in connection with "apparent violations" of the
U.S. sanctions against Iran. 27 (Giuffra Deel. If 15 (quoting OFAC
Settlement).) In exchange for a $275 million payment, OFAC
agreed to "release and forever discharge [Adani Enterprises],
without any finding of fault, from any and all civil liability in con-
nection with the apparent violations."28 (Id.)
Between June 17 and 18, 2026, Appearing Defendants appeared
through counsel. (Appearances (Dkts. 26-34).) On June 24,
2026, Mr. Giuffra filed a letter on behalf of these Defendants. The
letter describes Appearing Defendants' reasons for consenting to
the Rule 48(a) Motion. (See generally Giuffra Ltr.)
         F.   Subsequent Orders
On June 26, 2026, the court reminded the parties that Rule 48(a)
requires the government to provide its rationale, including suffi-
cient factual support, for the requested dismissal and directed the
Department to fulfill those requirements. (June 26, 2026 Mem.
& Order ("June 26 Order") (Dkt. 36).)
On July 4, 2026, in response to the court's June 26 Order,
McCotter submitted an unsworn letter. In the letter, McCotter
averred that "[he] was the final and sole decisionmaker to seek
dismissal of the charges here" and, as such, "[he] did not ask[]
the U.S. Attorney or any other attorney to sign this submission."
(Mccotter Ltr. at 3 n.1, 10 n.3.) The letter also concedes that

26 Adani Enterprises, https://perma.cc/K9W2-4HDB.

27 OFAC Settlement at 4, 5.

28 Id. While Mr. Giuffra's declaration correctly quotes the Settlement
Agreement as stating that Adani Enterprises "extensively cooperated with
OFAC's investigation," the full quotation also states that "OFAC determined
that [Adani Enterprises]'s conduct was egregious" and that "its submis-
sions did not constitute a voluntary self-disclosure under the Enforcement
Guidelines." Compare (Giuffra Deel. 'I 15), with OFAC Settlement at 1.




                                   13
"current or former Department attorneys may disagree with the
decision to drop these charges." (Id. at 10.)
Although directed to provide only the reasons for the requested
dismissal, (June 26 Order at 1), McCotter also volunteered his so-
called "non-considerations," (Mccotter Ltr. at 9). Specifically, the
letter states that McCotter did not consider "some promise" by
Defendant Gautam Adani to "invest money in the United States"
in exchange for the dismissal of this case. (Id.) According to
Mccotter, before the investment promise "first arose" in his meet-
ings with defense counsel, he had already "firmly concluded" that
he "would seek dismissal of the securities charges no matter
what." (Id.)
Introducing this "non-consideration," McCotter's letter refers to
"stories in the media about the Department's motion to dismiss
the securities charges in this case." (Id.) Here, the letter appears
to be referring to articles reporting on the "transactional nature"
of the Department's request to drop this case, 29 potential "influ-
ence-peddling" from personal attorneys to the President


29 See, e.g., Hong etal., supra note 22; Dan Rosenzweig-Ziff etal., Trump

Administration Ends Civil, Criminal Cases Against Adani After $10 Billion
Investment Promise, Reuters (May 18, 2026), https://perma.cc/824X-
FHF5; Economic Times, Adani Group Will Start Business in Big Way in US
Because Allegations Have Been Withdrawn: Senior Advocate HP Ranina
(May 19, 2026), https://perma.cc/PB32-2EPT; Bloomberg Law, Adani
Group Secures $15 Billion Capital as US Legal Clouds Clear (July 3, 2026),
https://perma.cc/HBN4-MG6B ("In one week, billionaire Gautam Adani
has announced nearly $15 billion in investment commitments.... The
string of announcements signals that the [G]roup ... is rapidly regaining
ground with investors, including US-based banks.").
Many of these reports also formed the basis for a June 11, 2026 letter from
U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren and Richard Blumenthal to then-Acting At-
torney General Blanche about the Department's decision to drop this case
that raises "serious questions" about "the role that Mr. Adani's politically
salient offer played in the DOJ's decision." U.S. Senate, Ltr. to Acting Att'y




                                     14
including Mr. Giuffra and Mr. Boris Epshteyn, 30 and reported
meetings between Defendant Gautam Adani and the President's
eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., as early as November 2025. 31
Concerned about the specter of a financial promise first raised in
McCotter's unsolicited references to news articles, the court di-
rected Defendant Gautam Adani to answer whether any
agreement or promise exists in connection with the Department's
dismissal decision. (July 8, 2026 Order ("July 8 Order") (Dkt. 38)
at 3-4.)
On July 15, 2026, Mr. Giuffra submitted the requested affidavit,
and an unsolicited declaration of his own. (G. Adani Aff.
(Dkt. 40-1); Giuffra Deel.)
In his affidavit, Defendant GautamAdani swore that "[he is] not
aware of anything promised, offered, sought, received, agreed to,
or accepted by anyone in connection with the dismissal of the
Indictment." (G. Adani Aff. --r 2.) Notwithstanding this affirma-
tion, Mr. Adani disclosed that during "settlement discussions"
with the Department and SEC "[his] counsel suggested that [his]
publicly stated intent to invest $10 billion in the United States
might be part of a resolution ... if that was what the DOJ or SEC
wanted." (Id. --r 4 (emphases added).) Defendant GautamAdani


General     Todd Blanche    re    Adani,    at 1   (June 11,     2026),
https://perma.cc/V3YS-2K7D. As of the writing of this Memorandum &
Order, the Department has not responded to the Senators' letter.
30 See, e.g., Joe Palazzolo et al., Trump's Personal Lawyer Was Said to Be

Part of a Billionaire's Criminal Defense, Wall St. J. (June 15, 2026),
https://perma.cc/NSB6-WTPZ; Gabe Kaminsky et al., Thi.s Law Firm Has
Deep Ties to Trump. A Partner Is Hi.s Pick to Be Manhattan's Top Prosecutor.,
CBS News (June 17, 2026), https://perma.cc/1N6H-3NYT; see also Adcox
et al., supra note 18.
31 See, e.g., PR Sanjai et al., Billionaire Adani Met Trump Jr. While Facing

US Bribery Charges, Bloomberg (June 23, 2026), https://perma.cc/7DJU-
ED6G.




                                     15
swore that "he also understand[s] that the [Department] later
informed [his] counsel that it would not consider this potential
investment in determining whether to seek dismissal of the In-
dictment." (Id.)
In his declaration, Mr. Giuffra volunteered that "[o]n two occa-
sions during [his] discussions with the [Department], [he] stated
that as part of any resolution ... on the merits, the Adani Group
[a non-defendant] would be amenable to following through on
a public statement by Gautam Adani regarding the Group's will-
ingness to invest $10 billion in the United States as a means of
promoting the U.S.-India trade relationship." (Giuffra Deel. 'l 9.)
Mr. Giuffra also claimed to volunteer the Department's purported
response to those offers, stating that "in a May 11, 2026 email to
[him]," copying McCotter and Assistant Attorney General
Tysen Duva, U.S. Attorney Nocella "advised":
    [T]he portion of the joint defense offer made by [Ap-
    pearing Defendants] to resolve the criminal charges
    against them by, in part, a general proposal to invest
    $10 billion in the United States is categorically rejected
    by this Office.
    We understand that other grounds for resolution of the
    pending criminal charges with the Department of Jus-
    tice are being explored. However, please know that the
    above-referenced proposal, which appeared in your
    April 17, 2026, slide deck presentation, will not be con-
    sidered by this Office.
(Id. 'l 12 (emphases added) (quoting Nocella Email Dated
5/11/2026 ("Nocella Email") (Dkt. 46-1).)
Given that U.S. Attorney Nocella's email appeared to draw dis-
tinctions between his Office and the Department and each
entity's reasons for any possible resolution of the charges in this
case, and that in the only evidence before the court, U.S. Attorney




                                16
Nocella (as opposed to Mccotter) "categorically rejected"
Mr. Giuffra's offer of a financial promise on behalf of his Office
(as opposed to the Department), the court asked U.S. Attorney
Nocella to provide his sworn assurances that the reasons ad-
vanced by McCotter for the requested dismissal are all of the real
grounds upon which the Rule 48(a) Motion is based. 32 (July 15,
2026 Order ("July 15 Order") (Dkt. 45) at 4-5).
On July 17, 2026, U.S. Attorney Nocella submitted his declara-
tion. Therein, he explained that as a U.S. Attorney"[he] report[s]
to the Office of the Deputy Attorney General," and that "Mccotter
is [his] direct supervisor." (Nocella Deel. (Dkt. 47) 'l l.) U.S. At-
torney Nocella also swore that after several meetings (including
meetings that he attended), Mccotter "exercised his authority as
PADAG and determined that further resources should not be de-
ployed in this prosecution and that the [I]ndictment should be
dismissed."33 (Id. 'l 2, 3.) U.S. Attorney Nocella confirmed that:
"[he] was not the decisionmaker for the motion to dismiss"; "had
no participation in drafting the Mccotter Letter"; "[his] signing
the [Rule 48 (a) Motion]" was "at the direction" of Mccotter; and
thus, "[he has] no basis to believe that the reasons advanced by
Mccotter for the proposed dismissal are not the real grounds
upon which the [Motion] is based." (Id. 'l'l 5-7.)



32 Such assurances were necessary under Rule 48(a) for the reasons ex-

plained in the court's July 15 Order. The requested information was also
important given that if an individual (in this case, McCotter) "seeks to dis-
miss a case for improper reasons, a court can deny the motion and send
the matter back to the government, which can then reassign the case to
another prosecutor." Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d at 192. But, if the "reasons
for dismissal [are] offered by the Justice Department itself," the court "can-
not force" the Department to prosecute the case. Id.
33 Mccotter was appointed Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General,

or "PADAG," on April 9, 2026. Acting AG Todd Blanche, (@DAGTodd-
Blanche), X (Apr. 9, 2026, 5:22 P.M.), https://perma.cc/MJ6E-BJZ4.




                                     17
II. LEGAL STANDARD

Among the three coequal branches, the Executive has the "exclu-
 sive authority and absolute discretion to decide whether to
prosecute a case." United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 693
 (1974). Thus, the Supreme Court has "repeatedly emphasized
that 'whether to prosecute and what charge to file or bring before
 a grand jury are decisions that generally rest in the prosecutor's
discretion."' United States v. Fokker Servs. B.V., 818 F.3d 733, 741
 (D.C. Cir. 2016) (quoting United States v. Batchelder, 442 U.S.
114, 124 (1979)). But after these decisions are made, and the
grand jury returns an indictment, "the prosecution is no longer
entirely within the realm of . . . [E]xecutive authority." United
States v. Stevenson, 425 F. Supp. 3d 647,651 (S.D. W. Va. 2018);
see also id. at 651 n.31 (observing that "the prosecutor's discre-
tion to dismiss a charge" is "less than absolute once the grand
jury has returned a true bill"). This is true because of the "obvious
distinction" between the "commencement of a criminal case by
the filing of charges" and the "termination of a criminal case by
moving to dismiss those charges" pursuant to Rule 48(a). United
States v. Abreu, 747 F. Supp. 493, 500 (N.D. Ind. 1990), affd sub
nom. United States v. Vasquez, 966 F.2d 254 (7th Cir. 1992).

     A.   Rule 48(a)'s Purpose and History3 4
Rule 48(a) provides that "[t]he government may, with leave of
court, dismiss an indictment." Fed. R. Crim. P. 48(a).
When it was enacted in 1944, Rule 48(a) "change[d] existing
law." Fed. R. Crim. P. 48(a) advisory committee's note to 1944
adoption 1. Prior to the Rule's enactment, the law allowed for the
automatic dismissal of an indictment upon the government's mo-
tion. Id. In contrast, under the current Rule, the government may


34 For additional details regarding Rule 48(a)'s history, see Adams, 777

F. Supp. 3d at 205 & n.24.




                                  18
dismiss an indictment "only by leave of court." Id. (emphasis
added); see also United States v. Cowan, 524 F.2d 504, 512
 (5th Cir. 1975) (''The Supreme Court's deliberate insertion of the
phrase 'by leave of court,' the phrase itself denoting judicial
choice, . . . [was] intended to clothe the federal courts with a
discretion broad enough to protect the public interest in the fair
administration of criminal justice."); Rinaldi v. United States, 434
U.S. 22, 34 (1977) (adding that the addition of the "leave of
court'' proviso seems "clearly directed toward an independent ju-
dicial assessment of the public interest in dismissing the
indictment") (Rehnquist, J., dissenting). In the words of the Sec-
ond Circuit, Rule 48(a) does not "shift absolute power from the
Executive to the Judicial Branch." United States v. Blaszczak, 56
F.4th 230, 240 (2d Cir. 2022). Instead, Rule 48(a) gives the
court, "a power to check [Executive] power." Id.; see also Cowan,
524 F.2d at 513 ("Rule 48(a) was intended to modify and condi-
tion the absolute power of the Executive, consistently with the
Framer's concept of Separation of Powers, by erecting a check on
the abuse of Executive prerogatives.").
While the Supreme Court "did not publicly explain its rationale
for adding the 'leave of court' requirement," United States v. Ad-
ams, 777 F. Supp. 3d 185, 206 (S.D.N.Y. 2025) (citing Rinaldi,
434 U.S. at 29 n.15), according to Wright & Miller, "evidence
suggests the addition of the requirement for court approval prior
to a dismissal was motivated by a concern that prosecutors were
seeking dismissals of politically well-connected defendants."
Wright & Miller§ 802 n.2.50; see also United States v. Ammidown,
497 F.2d 615, 620 (D.C. Cir. 1973) (observing that Rule 48(a)
"contemplates exposure of the [government's] reasons for dis-
missal in order to prevent abuse of the uncontrolled power of
dismissal previously enjoyed by prosecutors").
Regardless of the motivations for the Rule's adoption, the Su-
preme Court has recognized that the "leave of court'' requirement




                                19
"obviously vest[s] some discretion in the court." Rinaldi, 434 U.S.
at 29 n.15. This discretion is narrow, yet critical. "Rule 48 (a) is
meant to be a check on the abuse of executive prerogatives."
United States v. B.G.G., 53 F.4th 1353, 1362 (11th Cir. 2022). To
achieve this purpose, Rule 48(a) gives the courts the power to
"guard against [the] abuse of prosecutorial discretion." United
States v. Amos, 763 F. Supp. 3d 2, 4 (D.D.C. 2025) (quoting Am-
midown, 497 F.2d at 620); see also Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d at 207
(same). Thus, the Rule "asks courts to strike a delicate balance-
deferring to executive discretion where appropriate but protect-
ing against executive overreach in limited circumstances."
Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d at 207.
    B. Rule 48(a)'s Requirements
The court's role on a Rule 48(a) motion is, of course, distinctly
judicial: to ensure the Executive satisfies the Rule's "procedural
and substantive components." Id. at 207 (citing Ammidown, 497
F.2d at 620). Critically, ''whether a defendant consents to dismis-
sal is not dispositive." Id. (citing United States v. Hamm, 659 F.2d
624, 629 (5th Cir. 1981)). Instead, a court may deny dismissal
"even when the defendant consents to the motion." Hamm, 659
F.2d at 629.
"Rule 48(a) requires that the government set forth the basis for
its motion to dismiss." Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d at 208 (collecting
cases). Thus, to satisfy the Rule's procedural components, the
court will first "require" the government to provide a "statement
of reasons and underlying factual basis" for its dismissal determi-
nation. Id. at 207 (quoting Ammidown, 497 F.2d at 620). Here,
an "'unsupported conclusory reason' for seeking dismissal" is in-
sufficient. Id. at 208 (quoting United States v. Salinas, 693 F.2d
348, 352 (5th Cir. 1982)); see also United States v. Olmos-Gonza-
les, 993 F. Supp. 2d 1234, 1236 (S.D. Cal. 2014) (denying
Rule 48(a) motion where the government provided only one con-
clusory reason for dismissal without further justification or any




                                20
factual basis). Instead, the government must provide both its ac-
tual reasons for the requested dismissal and "sufficient factual
information" for the court to be sure that the proffered reasons
are the real reasons for dismissal. Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d at 208
(first quoting Wright & Miller§ 802; and then citing United States
v. Rosenberg, 108 F. Supp. 2d 191,208 (S.D.N.Y. 2000) as an ex-
ample).
After the court is satisfied that it has sufficient factual support for
all of the "real" reasons for the dismissal, it turns to Rule 48(a)'s
substantive components. Id. at 207-08 (citing Ammidown, 497
F.2d at 620). At this stage, the court must "be satisfied" that the
government's sufficiently supported, real reasons for dismissal
are also "substantial." Id. at 208 (quoting United States v. Greater
Blouse, Skirt & Neckwear ContractorsAss'n, 228 F. Supp. 483,486
 (S.D.N.Y. 1964)). In doing so, the court does not "substitute its
judgment for that of the prosecutor." Id. at 206-07 (quoting
United States v. Poindexter, 719 F. Supp. 6, 10 (D.D.C. 1989)).
Regardless of whether the Government requests dismissal with
or without prejudice, the court "retains discretion to determine
whether a dismissal should be with or without prejudice." Id.
at 214.

III. DISCUSSION

It is evident throughout McCotter's musings on 'judicial inquisi-
tions," the "separation of powers," and "prosecutorial discretion"
that he would like the court to have no role in reviewing this
Motion. (Mccotter Ltr. at 1-5.) However, the Rule's legislative
history and relevant case law confirm that Rule 48(a) was en-
acted to ensure the court's limited, but key, role in scrutinizing
the government's decision to dismiss charges once a grand jury
returns an indictment. Supra Section IL




                                 21
As explained in the court's prior orders, Mccotter filed a proce-
durally inadequate Rule 48(a) motion. 35 In response to those
orders, the court now has before it: (1) the Department's prof-
fered statement of reasons for dismissal in the form of McCotter's
unsworn letter dated July 4, 2026, (Dkt. 37), which attaches
three, unauthenticated decisions from the Competition Commis-
sion of India dated April 16, 2026, the High Court of Delhi at
New Delhi dated March 10, 2026, and the High Court of Judica-
ture at Bombay, Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction dated March 27,
2026, (Dkts. 37-1, 37-2, 37-3); (2) Defendant GautamAdani's af-
fidavit dated July 14, 2026, (Dkt. 40-1); (3) Mr. Giuffra's
unsolicited declaration dated July 14, 2026, (Dkt. 40-2); (4) a
copy of an email from U.S. Attorney Nocella to Mr. Giuffra and
others dated May 11, 2026, (Dkt. 46-1); and (S) U.S. Attorney
Nocella's declaration dated July 17, 2026, (Dkt. 47).
Having reviewed these submissions, the court is now convinced
that Mccotter was, in fact, the "sole decisionmaker'' with regard
to the requested dismissal. On the evidence before it, the court is
also satisfied that Defendant Gautam Adani's $10 billion invest-
ment promise was, in fact, a "non-consideration," and that the
reasons for dismissal enumerated on pages 6-9 of McCotter's let-
ter are the real reasons for his decision to dismiss the Indictment.
The court can now proceed to determine for each reason
(a) whether the government has provided "sufficient factual in-
formation," and if so, (b) whether that particular reason is
"substantial." Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d at 208.



35 McCotter's statement that "the Department typically files short dismissal

motions, which [c]ourts typically accept without controversy," (McCotter
Ltr. at 5), is inaccurate. As just one example, on July 31, 2026, the Depart-
ment filed a 20-page motion complete with evidentiary exhibits supporting
the reasons for dismissal. Dept's Mot. to Dismiss Indictment, United States
v. DavidHeam,No. 2026 CF210237 (TEE) (D.C. Super. Ct. July 31, 2026).




                                    22
    A. The Proffered Reasons for Dismissal
McCotter's letter enumerates six "overlapping bases" for the re-
quested dismissal. (McCotter Ltr. at 6.) According to Mccotter,
"any one:' basis would be "sufficient'' to grant the Department's
requested dismissal of all charges against all Defendants and
"taken together," the six bases "ma[k]e clear the entire case must
be dismissed." (Id.)
Following these purported "overlapping'' bases to dismiss "all
charges," Mccotter separates the charges into "two buckets":
(1) the securities and fraud charges brought in Counts Two,
Three, and Four; and (2) the FCPA and obstruction charges
brought in Counts One and Five, respectively. (Id.) For each
bucket, Mccotter provides a list of "charge-specific" bases for dis-
missal. (Id. at 7-8 (providing "additional" bases for dismissal of
Counts Two, Three, and Four), 8-9 (providing "additional" bases
for dismissal of Count One), 9 (providing "additional" bases for
dismissal of Count Five).)
Having carefully considered each basis, the court concludes that
the Department has met Rule 48(a)'s requirements as to one
proffered reason justifying the dismissal of Counts Two, Three,
and Four of the Indictment.
         1. The "Overlapping'' Bases for Dismissal
As explained below, none of McCotter's "overlapping'' bases for
dismissal provide any factual basis for his decision to end this
prosecution. (See Mccotter Ltr. at 6-7.) Additionally, even a cur-
sory review reveals that several of these so-called "overlapping"
bases do not in fact overlap between all Counts.
         a.   "This is a foreign case."
McCotter's first reason to dismiss all Counts against all Defend-
ants is that "this is a foreign case," ("Overlapping Basis 1"). (Id.
at 6.) As support for Overlapping Basis 1, McCotter's letter directs




                                 23
the court to the Indictment, stating: "Ctrl-F 'India' in the [I]ndict-
ment, and it'll show well over 200 hits." (Id.)
McCotter's letter fails to provide the court with sufficient factual
information to support Overlapping Basis 1. That the word "In-
dia" appears in the Indictment 226 times does not establish that
this is a "foreign" case. By that logic, the fact that the term
"United States" appears 108 times in the Indictment, or that
"U.S. Issuer" returns an independent 110 hits, may well render
this a domestic case. McCotter's letter therefore provides no fac-
tual basis on which to conclude that this is, in fact, a foreign
case. 36
The court is unpersuaded by McCotter's unsworn statements re-
garding hypothetical concerns of "diplomatic strife" and
''waste[d] resources," or his unsubstantiated claim that "India
can better manage its internal systems than can prosecutors in
Brooklyn and Washington." (Id.)
Additionally, Overlapping Basis 1 entirely fails to contend with
the conduct that took place in the United States-most notably,
the Overt Acts of Defendants Cabanes and Saurabh Agarwal,
among others, charged in Count One, (Indictment 'l 126), and
the alleged lies Defendants Cabanes, Saurabh Agarwal, Mal-
hotra, and Rupesh Agarwal, among others, told FBI, SEC, and
Department officials in New York, (id. 'l 78), which form the ba-
sis, in part, of the obstruction charges in Count Five. Thus, even
if the Department had met Rule 48(a)'s procedural requirements
for Overlapping Basis 1 (it has not), this first "overlapping" rea-
son for dismissal would provide no basis to dismiss either
Count One or Count Five.



36 In addition, the lack of any explanation for the legal relevance of
McCotter's characterization of this case as "foreign" is particularly stark
given the nature of the case, which is prosecutingforeign corrupt practices.




                                    24
Without more, this first proffered reason for dismissal amounts
to an unsupported, conclusory statement that does not satisfy
Rule 48(a)'s procedural requirements. Therefore, the court will
not consider whether Overlapping Basis 1 is a substantial reason
for dismissing all Counts.
         b.   "[India] has found no actionable conduct."
McCotter's second reason to dismiss all Counts is that "India has
investigated many of the allegations in this case and in several
reports and decisions issued in 2026 has found no actionable mis-
conduct," ("Overlapping Basis 2"). (Mccotter Ltr. at 6.) As
support for Overlapping Basis 2, McCotter's letter directs the
court to three "attached documents from India" that he "re-
viewed" before filing the Rule 48(a) Motion. (Id.) However,
unauthenticated foreign legal documents are insufficient to sat-
isfy the court's oversight obligations under Rule 48(a). Further,
inspection of the documents reveals that they do not provide sup-
port for, and instead contradict, McCotter's characterization of
their contents.
First, the unauthenticated foreign legal documents are irrelevant.
India's laws are not this country's laws. It is obvious that the court
cannot discharge its Rule 48(a) duty to review the Department's
reasons for dismissal by relying solely on "reports and decisions"
from foreign tribunals applying foreign laws in foreign judicial
systems. (Id.) Whatever determinations India's tribunals may
have made under India's legal standards about some of the al-
leged conduct in this case (explained below), has no bearing on
whether all Counts against all Defendants should be dismissed
under the criminal laws of the United States in this case.
Second, putting aside their irrelevance, the documents provide
no support for McCotter's claims that India has "investigated
many of the allegations in this case" and that India has "found no
actionable misconduct." (Id.) Not one of the documents appears




                                 25
to be the result of an investigation-by India or anyone else. Ra-
ther, each document appears to be a decision by an Indian
government authority not to investigate. Not one of the docu-
ments meaningfully contends with the allegations in this case. In
fact, the allegations-in each case, brought by a private individ-
ual-bear very little resemblance (if any) to the alleged conduct
in the Indictment. Finally, no document concludes that nothing
"inappropriate" happened. (Id.)
The Competition Commission of India decided not to investigate
a private individual's claims about possible collusion between 12
named parties in the "generation and distribution of solar power"
in India in violation of India's Competition Act of 2002. (Compe-
tition Comm'n Decision 'f'f 25, 59). The crux of the complaint
before the Commission was that the Adani Group "abused their
market dominance" in the "power generation market in India."
(Id. 'f'f 7, 51-52.) No industry collusion is alleged in the Indict-
ment. The only overlap with this case appears to be the private
"Informant['s]" attempt to support his case with the Indictment's
existence. (Id. 'f'f 7-8.) In that regard, the Commission appears to
have concluded that the allegations of bribery in the Indictment
"[do] not seem to qualify" as violations of India's Competition
Act. (Id. 'f 54.)
The New Delhi High Court declined to accept a private individ-
ual's invitation to investigate "grave irregularities" in the
"competitive bidding process for solar power projects" under In-
dia's Public Interest Litigation jurisdiction. (New Delhi Decision
'f'f 1-2, 24-25.) No allegations of bribery, securities fraud, or wire
fraud were made or investigated. The only overlap between the
New Delhi High Court action and this case is the existence of the
Indictment-again, used by the private claimant as an attempt to
bolster his private claim. (Id. 'f 9.)
The Bombay High Court declined to investigate a private peti-
tioner's claims "relating to the offence of bribery as disclosed by




                                 26
[petitioner]." (Bombay Decision '! l.) Again, the only apparent
overlap with this case is the petitioner's invocation of the Indict-
ment's existence. (Id. '! 3.) Relying in part on the New Delhi High
Court's decision not to investigate, the Bombay High Court dis-
missed the request to investigate. (Id. If'! 4, 5, 9.)
Not one of these documents says anything about either Appear-
ing Defendants's alleged lies and omissions to lenders and
investors in the United States, or Non-Appearing Defendants' al-
leged destruction of evidence and lies to federal officials in New
York.
For the above reasons, McCotter's purported factual support for
Overlapping Basis 2 is merely an unsupported condusory state-
ment. Therefore, Rule 48(a)'s procedural requirements are not
met as to this second reason to dismiss all Counts.
         c.   ''Not a single penny has ever been lost."
McCotter's third reason to dismiss all Counts is that "[n]ot a sin-
gle penny has ever been lost on the securities at issue,"
("Overlapping Basis 3"). (Mccotter Ltr. at 6.) As support,
McCotter's letter provides his unswom, unsubstantiated assur-
ance that "[t]wo of the notes are fully paid back, and the other
two notes are currently paid up, with no indication of any change
ahead." (Id.)
Mccotter gives the court no way to evaluate the veracity of his
statement. He also provides no legal standard or argument as to
why the purported lack of financial loss supports his dismissal
decision. Indeed, the assertion that "[n] ot a single penny has ever
been lost on the securities at issue" appears to be entirely imma-
terial to the allegations giving rise to either the FCPA charges in
Count One or the obstruction charges in Count Five-charges
that do not require financial loss. See 15 U.S.C. § 78dd-l(a);
18 U.S.C. § 1512(c).




                                27
The lack of any factual support for this so-called "overlapping''
reason for dismissal fails to satisfy Rule 48(a)'s procedural re-
quirements. Therefore, the court will not consider whether
Overlapping Basis 3 is a substantial reason for dismissing all
Counts.
         d.   "[Prior] Department leadership . .. dropp[ed] a
              potential quagmire of a case into the lap of the
              incoming Administration."
McCotter's fourth reason to dismiss all Counts is that the Indict-
ment was "unsealed in the final days of the prior Administration,
apparently as a 'name and shame' designed to levy accusations
without any realistic prospect of a trial ever occurring," ("Over-
lapping Basis 4"). (McCotter Ltr. at 6.) As support, McCotter
asserts that at the time the Indictment was unsealed in November
2024, Department leadership was "surely aware" that "they were
dropping a potential quagmire of a case into the lap of the in-
coming Administration, and perhaps that was an intentional
choice." (Id.)
McCotter's unswom, unsubstantiated statement about the prior
administration's motives for unsealing the Indictment does not
amount to sufficient factual support for Overlapping Basis.4. At
most, it provides the court with McCotter's opinions about the
integrity of the SEC, FBI, Department, and U.S. Attorney's Office
officials who investigated and ultimately brought this case.
Mccotter appears to be accusing officials across four different
government offices of bringing a detailed 54-page, 5-count in-
dictment out of spite. However, he has not provided a scintilla of
evidence to suggest that the timing of the unsealing of the Indict-
ment, or the charging decisions, in this case was politically
motivated.
McCotter's baseless assertion is unbecoming of his office. It is also
inconsistent with this court's experience. The court has presided




                                 28
over innumerable cases brought by the SEC, the FBI, the Depart-
ment, and the U.S. Attorney's Office over the last 26 years (and
counting) and does not agree with McCotter's characterization of
their integrity and motives.
Rule 48(a) requires more than unsubstantiated accusations. It
demands sufficient proof. Here, there is simply no evidence to
support Overlapping Basis 4. Without any factual support, this
fourth reason for dismissal amounts to nothing more than an un-
supported conclusory statement that does not satisfy Rule 48(a)'s
requirements.
        e.   "Extraordinary proof problems"
McCotter's fifth reason to dismiss all Counts is that there ''would
have been extraordinary proof problems in this case," ("Overlap-
ping Basis 5"). (Mccotter Ltr. at 7.) As support, McCotter's letter
provides one unswom and unsubstantiated statement: that "sig-
nificant evidence and key witnesses are in India." (Id.)
Overlapping Basis 5 is entirely speculative. McCotter writes that
there would have been "extraordinary proof problems" in this
case, not that such problems actually exist. McCotter also offers
the court no way to evaluate the extent or veracity of his asser-
tions. Furthermore, contrary to McCotter's statements that this
basis "would have been sufficient" to justify the dismissal of all
Counts, the Indictment suggests otherwise. (Id. at 6.) Specifi-
cally, McCotter's letter fails to explain how the supposed "proof
problems" justify the dismissal of the obstruction charges in
Count Five-charges that rest on alleged conduct that occurred,
and evidence that presumably exists, in the United States.
Mccotter fails to provide sufficient factual support for Overlap-
ping Basis 5. Therefore, this fifth "overlapping" reason for
dismissal amounts to an unsupported conclusory statement that
does not satisfy Rule 48(a)'s procedural requirements.




                               29
            f   "[D] efendants have never appeared and probably
                never would."
McCotter's sixth reason to dismiss all Counts is that Defendants
have "never appeared and probably never would," ("Overlapping
Basis 6"). (Mccotter Ltr. at 7.) As support for this basis,
McCotter's letter states, in full:
        [Defendants] are all foreign nationals who live abroad
        in locations that offer no reasonable prospect of arrest.
        That also means that, 18 months after indictment, no
        proceedings have taken place. There should have been
        no judicial concern about dismissing a case that has
        never proceeded past an indictment.
(Id.)

Mccotter provides no way for the court to assess Overlapping
Basis 6, nor the purported factual support on which it relies.
McCotter's assertion that Defendants "live abroad in locations
that offer no reasonable prospect of arrest" is completely unsub-
stantiated, and the record provides no information regarding
Defendants' whereabouts. (Id.)
Moreover, the fact that Defendants have not yet appeared says
nothing about whether Defendants will appear in the future. In
this court's 26 years on the bench, it has seen various instances
in which criminal defendants who failed to initially appear, ulti-
mately appeared-sometimes more than 18 months after the
indictment had been filed. On the current record, the court can-
not be persuaded that a defendant's unwillingness to appear in
court thus far provides a real and substantial basis for the dismis-
sal of all pending criminal charges against him.
For the above reasons, Overlapping Basis 6 does not satisfy
Rule 48(a).




                                  30
           2.   The "Charge-Specific" Bases for Dismissal
Having found that McCotter has not satisfied Rule 48 (a)'s proce-
dural requirements for Overlapping Bases 1-6, the court assesses
each of his proffered "charge-specific" reasons for dismissal-de-
termining for each reason (a) whether the government has
provided sufficient factual support, and if so, (b) whether that
particular reason is substantial.
           a.   Fraud Charges Against Appearing Defendants
                (Counts Two, Three, and Four)
The Indictment identifies four "Fraudulent Financial Transac-
tions": (1) the "2021 Syndicate Loan"; (2) the "2021
144A Bond"; (3) the "2023 Syndicate Loan"; and (4) the "2024
144A Bond," (collectively, the ''Transactions"). (Indictment
-Iff 85, 91, 106, 110.) The Transactions map onto each Count as
follows: Count Two charges Securities Fraud Conspiracy relating
to both 144A Bonds; Count Three charges Wire Fraud Conspiracy
relating to all four Transactions; and Count Four charges Securi-
ties Fraud relating only to the 2021 144A Bond. (Mccotter Ltr.
at 7-8.)
Mccotter lays out three "charge-specific" reasons to dismiss these
Counts: (1) that the securities charges would face "significant le-
gal risks" given the 'jurisdictional limits" of the relevant securities
laws because the alleged misconduct "occurred almost entirely in
India," (the "Extraterritoriality Rationale"); 37 (2) that the
charges would likely fail as "non-actionable expressions of puff-
ery and corporate optimism" because the alleged false statements



37 While Mccotter refers to the 'jurisdictional limits" of the U.S. securities

laws, (Mccotter Ltr. at 7), the Supreme Court has explicitly ruled that the
"extraterritorial reach of§ 10 (b)" does not raise "a question of subject-mat-
ter jurisdiction" but is, instead, "a merits question." Morrison v. Nat'!.
Australia Bank Ltd., 561 U.S. 247, 250-51, 253,254 (2010) (Scalia, J.).




                                     31
 "consisted primarily'' of "platitudes about following laws, not be-
 ing bribers, and being upstanding," (the "Non-Actionable Puffery
 Rationale"); and (3) that it ''would have been difficult to prove
 that [the] ultra-sophisticated investment entities were tricked,"
 because the Transactions ''were first transferred to highly sophis-
 ticated foreign-owned underwriters, which in tum sold them to
 qualified institutional buyers," (the "Sophisticated Investor Ra-
 tionale"). 38 (Id. at 7-8.)
 Of these Rationales, only the Non-Actionable Puffery Rationale is
 both supported by sufficient factual information and substantial
 enough to satisfy Rule 48(a)'s requirements.
                  i.       The Extraterritoriality Rationale
  The Extraterritoriality Rationale appears to argue that Counts
  Two and Four should be dismissed because the alleged miscon-
  duct is beyond the geographic reach of Section l0(b) of the
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Relying solely on the Indict-
  ment's allegations, McCotter argues that the "limited connections
  to the United States would pose a substantial risk both at trial
  and on appeal" because the allegedly fraudulent transactions are
  unlikely to be found sufficiently "domestic" in the Second Circuit.
  (Mccotter Ltr. at 7.) In other words, the Extraterritoriality Ra-
  tionale appears to argue that the securities charges amount to a
  so-called "foreign-cubed" case of the kind addressed by the Su-
  preme Court in Mom.son v. National Australia Bank Limited, 561
  U.S. 247 (2010), and then by the Second Circuit in Absolute Ac-
. tivist Value Master Fund Ltd. v. Ficeto, 677 F.3d 60 (2d Cir. 2012).

 38 In contrast to the two other Rationales, the Sophisticated Investor Ra-

 tionale does not purport to cite the record, nor does it provide a single case
 in support of its legal validity. McCotter's efforts to comply with
 Rule 48(a)'s procedural components as to the Rationale are therefore lack-
 ing. However, the court need not reach the Sophisticated Investor
 Rationale because it grants the Rule 48(a) Motion as to Counts Two, Three,
 and Four on the Non-Actionable Puffery Rationale.




                                      32
 In Morrison, the Supreme Court addressed the proliferation of
private securities actions in U.S. courts brought by (1) foreign
 purchasers (non-U.S. plaintiffs), against (2) foreign issuers (non-
 U.S. defendants), based on (3) foreign trades (sales or purchases
 executed on non-U.S. exchanges)-so-called foreign-cubed (or
"f-cubed") transactions. The Court held that Section lO(b) does
not provide a cause of action for these f-cubed transactions. Mor-
rison, 561 U.S. at 267. Instead, the Court concluded that the
provision applies "only'' to "transactions in securities listed on do-
mestic exchanges, and domestic transactions in other securities."
Id.; see also Absolute Activist, 677 F.3d at 66 (same). The Court
further clarified that "[w]ith regard to securities not registered
on domestic exchanges, the exclusive focus [is] on domestic pur-
chases and sales." Morrison, 561 U.S. at 268 (emphases in
original); see also AbsoluteActivist, 677 F.3d at 66 (same). The
Second Circuit clarified the meaning of these "domestic pur-
chases and sales" in Absolute Activist, holding that "transactions
involving securities that are not traded on a domestic exchange
are domestic if irrevocable liability is incurred or title passes
within the United States." 677 F.3d at 66-67. Parties "incur irrev-
ocable liability in the United States" when they "become bound
to effectuate the transaction" or "enter[] into a binding contract
to purchase or sell securities" in the United States. Id. at 67; In re
Vivendi, S.A. Sec. Litig., 838 F.3d 223,265 (2d Cir. 2016) (same).
McCotter's letter does not provide sufficient factual support for
his argument that the Transactions would not qualify as "domes-
tic," (Mccotter Ltr. at 7), because the Indictment explicitly
contradicts McCotter's unsupported assertions. The Indictment
alleges that in effecting the Transactions, "investors irrevocably
committed themselves in the United States to invest millions
of dollars in the securities of [Adani Green]," and that Appearing
Defendants relied on the U.S. financial system to perpetuate the




                                 33
alleged fraud scheme by "securing investors" who were "phys-
ically located in the United States." (Indictment 'I'! 39, 41
(emphases added).) The Indictment also includes other allega-
tions further suggesting that the Transactions were effectuated,
the binding contracts were entered into, and/or title to the secu-
rities passed, in the United States. (See, e.g., id. '1'180, 88, 91,
101, 110.)
On the face of the Indictment, the only facts in the record contra-
dict McCotter's assertion that the Transactions were not
"domestic." Therefore, he has not provided sufficient factual in-
formation for his claim that the fraud charges present "significant
legal risks" under the law of this circuit. (McCotter Ltr. at 7.)
               ii.    The Non-Actionable Puffery Rationale
The Non-Actionable Puffery Rationale presents a legal argument
to dismiss the fraud charges in Counts Two, Three, and Four, re-
lying on the allegations in the Indictment for factual support.
Specifically, Mccotter asserts that the "legal theory for fraud here
is so broad that it arguably turns any undisclosed corporate mis-
conduct into criminal securities fraud." (Id.) He further asserts
that the "allegedly false statements" charged in the Indictment
"consisted primarily-perhaps exclusively-of platitudes about
following laws, not being bribers, and being upstanding," which
he avers are the types of statements that the Second Circuit has
found to be "inactionable puffery." (Id. at 7-8 (citing Boston Ret.
Sys. v. Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, No. 23-CV-0940, 2024 WL
4023842, at *3 (2d Cir. Sept. 3, 2024) (summary order)).
To succeed in criminal fraud cases, the government must prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that the alleged misrepresentations
are "material." Materiality is an element of both securities fraud
(Counts Two, Four) and wire fraud (Count Three). Under Sec-
tion l0(b), a statement is "material" if it creates a "substantial
likelihood that a reasonable investor" would rely on the state-
ment in deciding "whether to buy or sell" the securities at issue.




                                34
Singh v. Cigna Corp., 918 F.3d 57, 63 (2d Cir. 2019). Under Sec-
tion 1343, a statement is "material" if it ''would naturally tend to
lead or is capable of leading a reasonable person to change
[their] conduct." United States v. Weaver, 860 F.3d 90, 94 (2d Cir.
2017). Under either standard, a statement "too general" to cause
reasonable reliance thereon, amounts to "inactionable puffery."
Singh, 918 F.3d at 63; Phhhoto Inc. v. Meta Platforms) Inc., 123
F.4th 592, 606 (2d Cir. 2024) ("general statements about repu-
tation, integrity, and compliance with ethical norms" are
"inactionable puffery"); see also In re Merril"[, Bofa) & Morgan
Stanley Spoofing Litig., No. 19-CV-6002 (I.JL), 2021 WL 827190,
at *9 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 4, 2021) (concluding that the statements
that defendants "maintain established procedures that ensure
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations" were non-
actionable puffery), affd sub nom. Gamma Traders - I LLC v. Mer-
rill Lynch Commodities) Inc., 41 F.4th 71 (2d Cir. 2022).
The Indictment alleges that documents supporting the marketing
and sale of the 2021 144A Bond contained "false and misleading
assurances about [Adani Green's] anti-bribery practices and pol-
icies and its commitment to such principles, purportedly backed
by robust internal compliance measures," and statements
"tout[ing]" the company's "risk management committee's over-
sight of anti-corruption and anti-bribery related matters."
(Indictment 'f'f 93, 94; see also id. 'f'f 115, 116 (alleging that
Adani Green's 2021 annual reports "falsely stated" that the com-
pany "had a 'zero tolerance' policy for bribery and corruption").)
Documents accompanying the 2024 144ABond, and the 2021
and 2023 Syndicate Loans, also allegedly contained similar "false
and misleading assurances" about Adani Green's "'corporate gov-
ernance' and touted 'maintaining transparency and compliance
in every aspect of [the company's] operations."' (Id. 'f 86, 107,
111).




                                35
 Here, the alleged misrepresentations appear to be so broad as to
 qualify as inactionable puffery. 39 The alleged representations re-
 garding Adani Green's commitment to "anti-bribery practices and
policies and commitment to such principles," (id. 'f'f 93, 94, 111),
could be interpreted as "general statements about reputation, in-
tegrity, and compliance with ethical norms," Meta Platforms, 123
F.4th at 606. The same is true for Appearing Defendants's pur-
ported pledges not to take or give bribes. (Indictment 'f'f 86, 94.)
Statements about "robust internal compliance measures" backing
Adani Green's anti-bribery policies, including the "risk manage-
ment committee's oversight of anti-corruption and anti-bribery
related matters," (id. 'f 93), also arguably fall into the category of
inactionable puffery as generalized compliance statements. See
In re Merril~ 2021 WL 827190, at *9; see also Sjunde AP-Fonden
v. Goldman Sachs Grp., Inc., 545 F. Supp. 3d 120, 135 (S.D.N.Y.
2021) (finding risk statement that the defendant bank had "a
comprehensive control framework designed to provide a well-
controlled environment to minimize operational risks" was inac-
tionable puffery). Finally, the assurances of a "zero tolerance
policy for bribery and corruption" and promises to "cooperate
with governmental authorities" in Adani Green's annual reports,
(Indictment 'f'f 115, 116), are nearly identical to the inactionable
puffery found in Boston Retirement Systems. 2024 WL 4023842,
at *3 (concluding that an alleged misrepresentation of a "zero-
tolerance approach to corruption" was inactionable).
The Indictment therefore provides sufficient factual support for
the Non-Actionable Puffery Rationale to dismiss Counts Two,
Three, and Four. The court now determines whether the Ra-
tionale is a substantial reason to dismiss these Counts. In
conducting this analysis, the court takes seriously that under


39 For the same reasons, the court finds that the statements are not suffi-

ciently material to sustain the wire fraud charges.




                                    36
Rule 48(a) it is "not free to substitute its judgment for that of the
prosecutor," Poindexter, 719 F. Supp. at 10, and that "factors
[such] as the strength of the case ... are not readily susceptible
to the kind of analysis the courts are competent to undertake,"
Wayte v. United States, 470 U.S. 598, 607 (1985).
Under Rule 48(a), the Non-Actionable Puffery Rationale pro-
vides a substantial reason to dismiss Counts Two, Three, and
Four because it is conceivable that the anti-bribery language used
in the financial documents is so generic and vague that it would
raise legal risks to the prosecution. A court could find that the
alleged misrepresentations are more akin to statements regard-
ing compliance with general legal obligations than a specific set
of criteria on which an investor would reasonably rely in deciding
whether to purchase the securities. And the possibility of such a
finding undermines the strength of the fraud charges.
For these reasons, the Non-Actionable Puffery Rationale is both
supported by sufficient factual information and a substantial rea-
son to dismiss Counts Two, Three, and Four.
         b.   FCPA Charges against Non-Appearing Defendants
              (Count One)
McCotter's "charge-specific" reason to dismiss Count One is that
"the FCPA charges must be dismissed because they do not satisfy
the Blanche Memorandum." (Mccotter Ltr. at 8.) His entire ex-
planation for this reason is as follows:
    [T]he alleged conduct did not involve criminal organi-
    zations, did not have any effect on U.S. companies, did
    not in any way implicate national security, was not egre-
    gious, and has been the subject of investigations in India.
    The alleged "payments" in this case were made by In-
    dian nationals, working for Indian companies, to the
    Indian government, with no U.S. interests implicated in
    any way. The FCPA charges here do not plausibly satisfy




                                37
     any of the bases given in the Blanche Memorandum for
     FCPA charges worthy of proceeding. Under the Blanche
     Memorandum, the FCPA charges should have been dis-
     missed a year ago.
(Id. at 9.)
As discussed, the Blanche Memorandum reoriented FCPA en-
forcement by announcing that the Department "shall focus on
cases in which individuals have engaged in criminal misconduct."
(Id.) It also directed prosecutors to consider four "non-exhaustive
factors" when evaluating whether to pursue FCPA enforcement
actions, including already-pending cases like this one: (1) "total
elimination of cartels and transnational criminal organizations
[ (''TCOs") ]" ("Factor 1"); (2) "safeguarding fair opportunities for
U.S. companies" ("Factor 2"); (3) "advancing U.S. national secu-
rity'' ("Factor 3"); and (4) "prioritizing investigations of serious
misconduct" ("Factor 4"). (Id. at 2-3.) For each Factor, the Mem-
orandum also provides guidance regarding the Factor's meaning
and purpose.
Given that McCotter's explanation does not include specific cita-
tions to the Indictment-instead, referring only to "alleged
conduct" broadly, (Mccotter Ltr. at 9)-the court identifies the
specific allegations that could map onto each Factor to evaluate
whether there is sufficient factual information for the proffered
reason to dismiss the FCPA charges in Count One.
With respect to Factor 1, the "primary'' considerations are
whether the alleged misconduct: "(1) is associated with the crim-
inal operations of a cartel or TCO; (2) utilizes money launderers
or shell companies that engage in money laundering for cartels
or TCOs; or (3) is linked to employees of state-owned entities or
other foreign officials who have received bribes from cartels or
TCOs." (Blanche Mem. at 2.) The allegations in the Indictment
provide no indication that cartels or TCOs are implicated in this




                                38
case, which supports McCotter's conclusion that the alleged con-
duct "does not satisfy" Factor 1. (McCotter Ltr. at 9.)
With respect to Factor 2, the Blanche Memorandum identifies
two considerations. (Blanche Mem. at 2-3.) The first considera-
tion is the vindication of "U.S. national security and economic
prosperity'' by protecting markets and the rule of law from indi-
viduals and companies that ''bribe foreign officials to obtain
business," thereby putting "their law-abiding competitors, includ-
ing U.S. companies, at a serious economic disadvantage." (Id.
at 2-3.) The Memorandum directs the Department to ''vindicate
these interests" by prioritizing the "prosecution of conduct that
most undermines these principles." (Id. at 3.) It specifically states
that ''by bribing foreign officials to obtain lucrative contracts" for-
eign actors "skew markets and disadvantage" U.S. companies.
(Id. at 3 & n.4) The second consideration is "whether the alleged
misconduct deprived specific and identifiable U.S. entities of fair
access to compete and/or resulted in economic injury to specific
and identifiable American companies or individuals." (Id. at 3.)
Although no specific U.S. company is identified in the Indict-
ment, the Indictment contains allegations of ''bribing foreign
officials to obtain lucrative contracts." (Id.) The Blanche Memo-
randum states that through this conduct foreign companies
necessarily "disadvantage law-abiding U.S. companies." (Id.)
Therefore, the Indictment appears to undercut McCotter's notion
that the alleged conduct had no "effect on U.S. companies."
(Mccotter Ltr. at 9).
With respect to Factor 3, the Blanche Memorandum directs the
Department to focus FCPA enforcement on the "most urgent
threats to U.S. national security resulting from the bribery of cor-
rupt foreign officials involving key infrastructure or assets."




                                 39
(Blanche Mem. at 3.) Relying on President Trump's National Se-
curity Strategy from 2017, 40 the Memorandum explains that this
is the correct focus for FCPA enforcement because when foreign
government corruption occurs "in sectors like defense, intelli-
gence, or critical infrastructure, American national security
interests may be harmed." (Id.) The 2017 National Security Strat-
egy defines "critical infrastructure" to include "energy and
power," names energy "dominance" as a key national security
goal, and identifies the promotion of energy exports as among
the "priority actions" to "embrace" energy dominance. 41
The allegations in the Indictment involve the payment of hun-
dreds of millions of dollars in bribes to corrupt Indian officials
involving energy and power. Thus, under the Blanche Memoran-
dum, the alleged conduct appears to present an "urgent threat[]
to U.S. national security," (id.), undermining McCotter's asser-
tion that the alleged conduct "did not in any way implicate
national security," (Mccotter Ltr. at 9).
For Factor 4, the Memorandum instructs the Department to focus
on "alleged misconduct that bears strong indicia of corrupt intent
tied to particular individuals, such as substantial bribe payments,
proven and sophisticated efforts to conceal bribe payments,
fraudulent conduct in furtherance of the bribery scheme, and ef-
forts to obstruct justice" as compared to "routine business
practices" or "de minimis or low-dollar, generally accepted busi-
ness courtesies." (Blanche Mem. at 3-4.)




40 National Security Strategy of the United States of America (Dec. 2017),

https://perma.cc/22WY-ZKC6.
41 Id. at 13 (identifying "six key areas," including "energy and power''), 18

(identifying "energy dominance" as a key national security goal), 22-23
(enumerating specific "priority actions" to "embrace energy dominance,"
including the promotion of energy exports).




                                    40
A casual reader could be forgiven for mistaking this paragraph of
the Blanche Memorandum for a succinct summary of the allega-
tions in the Indictment. Indeed, each bolded clause appears to
describe the very conduct alleged in Count One: alleged "mis-
conduct that bears strong indicia of corrupt intent [the intent
to bribe Indian government officials for lucrative energy con-
tracts] tied to particular individuals [Defendants, not the
corporate entities for which they worked], such as substantial
bribe payments [in this case, bribe payments totaling hundreds
of millions of dollars], proven and sophisticated efforts to con-
ceal bribe payments, fraudulent conduct in furtherance of
the bribery scheme, and efforts to obstruct justice [allegations
so numerous in this case, that they give rise to four separate and
distinct Counts] ."42 (Id. at 3-4.)
In summary, the current record contradicts McCotter's reasoning,
and therefore fails to support his proffered reason to dismiss
Count One on the grounds that the FCPA charges "do not plausi-
bly satisfy any of the bases given in the Blanche Memorandum."
(Mccotter Ltr. at 8-9). This conclusion appears to be further sup-
ported by the fact that the Department did not move to dismiss
these charges by the Executive Order's 180-day deadline to "take
appropriate action" in all existing FCPA cases-including this
one. (Blanche Mem. at 1 (quoting Exec. Order § 2).) This fact
suggests that either (a) the Department did not meet the dead-
line to review the FCPA charges set by the President; or



42 Mccotter is correct that the Blanche Memorandum directs that, as "part

of their considerations, 'FCPA prosecutors should also consider the likeli-
hood (or lack thereof) that an appropriate foreign law enforcement
authority is willing and able to investigate and prosecute the same alleged
misconduct."' (Mccotter Ltr. at 9 (quoting Blanche Mem. at 4).) For the
reasons detailed supra Section III.A.l.b, his claim that the alleged conduct
"has been the subject of investigations in India," (Mccotter Ltr. at 9), is not
only without sufficient factual support, but also inaccurate.




                                     41
(b) consistent with the Executive Order, the Department con-
cluded that the prosecution of the FCPA charges should continue
pursuant to the Memorandum, but Mccotter-guided by
Mr. Giuffra's "team" and acting as the "sole decisionmaker"
within the Department-overruled the Department's prior deci-
sion. Ultimately, whichever is the case here is irrelevant given
that the court has already detailed the lack of factual support for
McCotter's stated reason to dismiss Count One-meaning that
Rule 48(a)'s procedural requirements are not met.
The court's conclusion does not mean that additional evidence to
support this proffered reason to dismiss does not exist. It means
only that the factual support that Mccotter has provided is not
sufficient.
         c.   Obstruction Charges against Non-Appearing
              Defendants Cabanes, Saurabh Agarwal, Malhotra,
              and Rupesh Agarwal (Count Five)
McCotter's "charge-specific" reason to dismiss Count Five is that
"the [I]ndictment's theory makes little sense." (Id.) As support for
this basis, McCotter's letter states, in full:
        The [I]ndictment (paragraph 76) alleges that
        some of the [D]efendants who allegedly commit-
        ted obstruction also hired extremely expensive law
        firms to conduct thorough investigations that im-
        plicated the most high-profile defendants while
        downplaying the role of lower-profile individuals.
        Not exactly the most obvious way to commit ob-
        struction, to say the least.
(Id.)

The Indictment alleges that after the U.S. Issuer received requests
for information from the SEC in March 2022, Non-Appearing De-
fendants     Cabanes,    Saurabh Agarwal,        Malhotra,     and
Rupesh Agarwal, together with an unidentified co-conspirator




                                42
("Co-Conspirator #1"): (1) "made and agreed to make certain
selective disclosures in connection with the ... Government In-
vestigations"; (2) "destroyed and otherwise concealed evidence"
including through "the deletion of incriminating electronic mate-
rials" in June and August 2022, and their September 30, 2022
"agree [ment] to conceal their agreement to pay [Defendant Gau-
tam Adani] in connection with [the] bribery scheme"-thereby
impairing "the Government Investigations"; and (3) "falsely
den[ying] their participation in the bribery scheme" to represent-
atives from the FBI, the Department, and the SEC in Brooklyn,
New York between March and July 2023. (Indictment '1'173-78.)
According to the Indictment, the charged obstruction scheme af-
fected the "Grand Jury Investigation, the FBI Investigation, and
the SEC Investigation." (Id. '1135.)
McCotter's failure to address these serious allegations of the ob-
struction conspiracy is at best insufficient to meet Rule 48(a)'s
procedural requirements and at worst misleading. Mccotter ap-
pears to argue that because the decision to hire a law firm was
not an "obvious" way to commit obstruction, the entire charge
should be dismissed. (Mccotter Ltr. at 9.) He provides no evi-
dence for this straw man argument and completely ignores the
actual obstruction allegations in the paragraph-that the Non-
Appearing Defendants and Co-Conspirator #1 coordinated the
''withhold[ing]" of "key information" from that law firm and,
even more audaciously, from federal officials. (Indictment '176.)
Mccotter also fails to address any obstruction allegation in para-
graphs 73 through 78 of the Indictment. These allegations detail
a scheme involving the U.S. Issuer, Co-Conspirator #1, and Non-
Appearing Defendants Cabanes, Saurabh Agarwal, Malhotra,
and Rupesh Agarwal. Instead, McCotter focuses on only one as-
pect of one allegation regarding the scheme: that "[t]o create the
false appearance of transparency and good governance, in or
about August 2022," these Non-Appearing Defendants, together




                               43
with Co-Conspirator #1, "caused the U.S. Issuer's Board of Direc-
tors to initiate an internal investigation run by a law firm
headquartered in the United States and supervised by a sub-com-
mittee of the Board of Directors." (Id.)
The court's finding that the record provides insufficient factual
support for McCotter's reason to dismiss Count Five does not
mean that such information does not exist, but that because no
such evidence is before the court, the Department has not yet
satisfied Rule 48(a)'s requirements as to this Count.
    B. Dismissal With or Without Prejudice
Having found that the Department has met Rule 48(a)'s proce-
dural and substantive components as to the stated reason to
dismiss Counts Two, Three, and Four, the court must determine
whether these Counts should be dismissed with or without prej-
udice.
According to Mccotter, dismissal with prejudice is warranted be-
cause the request is "unopposed" and demonstrates that "[n]o
game is possibly being played," such as a "cat-and-mouse ploy to
keep a defendant constantly under indictment." (Mccotter Ltr.
atS.)
The Rule 48(a) Motion requests dismissal with prejudice and Ap-
pearing Defendants consent to the requested dismissal.
Consequently, the record provides no concern for prosecutorial
harassment. See Rinaldi, 434 U.S. at 29, n.15 (recognizing that a
"principal object" of the leave of court requirement is "to protect
a defendant against prosecutorial harassment, e.g., charging, dis-
missing, and recharging, when the [g] overnment moves to
dismiss an indictment over the defendant's objection"). There-
fore, the court dismisses Counts Two, Three, and Four with
prejudice.




                               44
N. CONCLUSION

As noted throughout this opinion, the irregularities in the deci-
sion to dismiss the Indictment are concerning. On the current
record, McCotter appears to have eschewed the professional
opinions of innumerable officials from various federal offices and
replaced them with his singular judgment. The fact that Mccotter
came to this decision largely in collaboration with defense coun-
sel, and seemingly without input from the FBI and SEC agents
who investigated the alleged misconduct, or the attorneys from
the Department, SEC, and U.S. Attorney's Office who brought the
case, appears to be highly unusual. McCotter's refusal to meet the
procedural requirements of Rule 48(a)-even after the court's
clear direction to do so-evinces a lack of respect for the Judici-
ary as a co-equal branch. It also foreclosed a quick and efficient
review of the requested dismissal and compelled the bifurcated
resolution of the Rule 48(a) Motion.
Taking no position on the ultimate propriety of Mr. Giuffra's re-
peat attempts to resolve this bribery case with monetary offers,
(Giuffra Deel. 'f 9), the court finds Mr. Giuffra's reliance on the
Department's guidelines for the prosecution of business organi-
zations (as in Section 9-28.300 of the Justice Manual)
unpersuasive. This case does not involve corporate defendants. It
is brought against eight individuals. The Department's cases
brought against individual defendants are subject to their own
guidelines. 43 It is up to the public to decide what effect offers of
this kind have on the equal administration of justice and the rule
of law. Ultimately, "it is the public's judgment, and not this
[c]ourt's, that truly matters." Adams, 777 F. Supp. 3d at 237.


43 U.S. Dep't of Just., Just. Manual§ 9-28.300 (2018). The Justice Manual

also includes specific policies for the prosecution of wire fraud
(CountThree), the FCPA (CountOne), and obstruction (CountFive).
U.S. Dep't of Just., Just. Manual§§ 9-43.100, 9-47.110, 9-69.100 (2018).




                                  45
                                  ***


In sum, for the reasons above, the court GRANTS IN PART the
Department's Rule 48(a) Motion to dismiss the Indictment
against all Defendants with prejudice. Counts Two, Three, and
Four of the Indictment as alleged against Appearing Defendants
Gautam Adani, Sagar Adani, and Vneet Jaain are DISMISSED
WITH PRE.JUDICE. 44 However, the court RESERVES JUDG-
MENT as to the portions of the Motion regarding Counts One and
Five as alleged against Non-Appearing Defendants Ranjit Gupta,
Cyril Cabanes,    Saurabh Agarwal,     Deepak Malhotra,    and
Rupesh Agarwal, pending the Department's fulfillment of its
Rule 48(a) obligations as to these Counts.
Pursuant to Rule 48(a), the Department is DIRECTED to advise
the court of each reason for dismissing Counts One and Five with
prejudice as against Non-Appearing Defendants and to provide
the court with sufficient factual support for each reason. The De-
partment is ORDERED to do so no later than August 31, 2026.
Finally, the court has been told that counsel for Non-Appearing
Defendants have "engaged in several meetings" with Mccotter,
(Mccotter Ltr. at 8), and that "[c]ounsel for all defendants con-
sent'' to the Rule 48(a) Motion, (Rule 48(a) Mot.). The court
requires the direct assurances of Non-Appearing Defendants'
consent on the record. Thus, counsel for Non-Appearing Defend-
ants      Ranjit Gupta,     Cyril Cabanes,      Saurabh Agarwal,
Deepak Malhotra, and Rupesh Agarwal must advise the court of


44 No one should mistake the court's granting of the Rule 48(a) Motion as

to Counts Two, Three, and Four, for the court's agreement with the De-
partment's decision to dismiss these Counts or as expressing any opinion
about the merits of the case.




                                  46
         their client's consent by August 31, 2026. The Department is DI-
         RECTED to advise counsel for Non-Appearing Defendants of this
         obligation.
SO ORDERED.


Dated:      Brooklyn, New York
            August /.!, 2026

                                                    s/Nicholas G Garaufis
                                                   ~CHOIAS G. GARAUFIS
                                                                  •
                                                    ~ ited States District Judge




                                      47
