Provenance: official-origin Exa indexed extraction, not original PDF bytes.
Source artifact: bihar-pmkisan.indexed-fulltext.txt

2.7.6 Recovery and refund The scheme guidelines provide that in case of incorrect declaration, the beneficiary shall be liable for recovery of transferred financial benefits. DoAC&FW communicated (April 2021) the SOP to ease the process of refund and reconciliation and for recovery of funds through Non-tax Receipt Portal from the ineligible beneficiaries like Income Tax payers identified by the system, death cases and cases where money is credited to wrong bank account. Audit observed that as per GoB’s estimate, ₹62.67 crore was recoverable from 67,851 ineligible beneficiaries of the State (upto November 2021). The SNO informed (November 2021) that approximately ₹4.00 crore (six per cent) had so far been recovered from the ineligible beneficiaries. The amount was yet to be transferred to the Central Government as the reconciliation process was not complete. Cash Book of the scheme maintained at DBT Cell did not depict entries of the amount recovered from individual beneficiary and/or unit-wise and the recovered amount was entered in lump sum. As a result individual and/ or unit-wise recovery effected could not be traced. The Secretary, Agriculture Department, while informing that ₹5.00 crore had been recovered, replied (February 2022) that the Department was trying to create an effective methodology for recovery and refund process. Recovery of only ₹5.00 crore (eight per cent) from ineligible beneficiaries was indicative of deficient recovery process of the State. Non-refund of the recovered amount to the Central Government due to pending reconciliation pointed towards deficiencies in accounting process of the recoveries. Further, if the ineligible beneficiaries had been checked at the entry level, not only the irregular payment could have been avoided but the resources required in the recovery process could also have been saved.

2.7.7 Penal action not taken The scheme guidelines provide that in case of incorrect self-declaration, beneficiary shall be liable for recovery of transferred financial benefits and other penal actions as per law. Audit noticed that no penal action was taken by Agriculture Department against the ineligible beneficiaries who received scheme benefits by submitting wrong declaration (November 2021). As per data provided by SNO, there were 67,851 such beneficiaries (48,366 income tax payer beneficiaries and 19,485 other ineligible beneficiaries) from whom recovery was to be made. The Secretary, Agriculture Department, while mentioning that the Department had issued directions regarding recovery to be made from the ineligible beneficiaries, further informed (February 2022) that the Department was working on a better and easy method to deal with recovery and its reporting. However, he did not furnish any reply regarding the penal action as envisaged.
