                                              Press Release
                                                03.04.2024

        Directorate of Enforcement (ED), Delhi has filed Prosecution Complaint before the Hon’ble Special
Court on 28-03-2024 against Jagdish Kumar Arora, the then Chief Engineer, Delhi Jal Board (DJB),
Tejinder Pal Singh [close associate of Jagdish Kumar Arora], Anil Kumar Agarwal [proprietor of M/s Integral
Screw Industries, Sub-Contractor], DK Mittal [the then employee of NBCC] and M/s NKG Infrastructure
Limited [Contractor of DJB] in the case of Delhi Jal Board [DJB] under the provisions of Prevention of
Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. The Hon’ble PMLA Special Court has taken cognizance of the
Prosecution Complaint on 03-04-2024.


        ED initiated investigations based on the complaint registered by CBI. As per the complaint, Jagdish
Kumar Arora [the then Chief Engineer, DJB] took bribe to award flow meter contract of Delhi Jal Board to
M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd. at a highly inflated cost of Rs. 38 Crore, even though the company did not
meet the technical eligibility criteria.

        ED investigation revelead that the contractor- M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd obtained the tender by
submitting forged documents. Jagdish Kumar Arora awarded the contract to the said entity in return for
bribe. The contract was awarded at Rs. 38 crore which was highly inflated. After winning the bid, M/s NKG
Infrastructure Ltd sub-contracted the work to M/s Integral Screws Ltd, a proprietorship firm of Anil Kumar
Aggarwal as NKG Infrastructure did not have the competence to execute the same. DJB made payment
of Rs. 24 Crore, out of which only about Rs. 14 Crore was spent towards the contract work and the
remaining amount was siphoned off/spent for bribe. Jagdish Kumar Arora received bribe of Rs. 3.19 Crore
out of which he transferred Rs. 2 Crore to other Delhi Jal Board officials and Aam Aadmi Party as election
fund.

        ED had earlier conducted search operations on 24-07-2023 and 17-11-2023 which resulted in
seizure of incriminating documents and evidence. ED had arrested Jagdish Kumar Arora and Anil Kumar
Aggarwal on 31-01-2024 and both are in Judicial Custody till date. ED had also provisionally attached
various immovable properties belonging to the accused valued at Rs. 8.8 Crore.


        Further investigations is under progress.
