                                  Press Release
                                    07.02.2024
      Directorate of Enforcement (ED) has conducted search operations on 06-02-2024 at
various locations of Delhi, Varanasi and Chandigarh in connection with Delhi Jal Board
corruption case.

      ED initiated investigations on the basis of FIR registered by CBI for offences related to
corruption/ bribery in Delhi Jal Board (DJB). The FIR alleged that Jagdish Kumar Arora [the
then Chief Engineer, DJB] awarded certain contract in Delhi Jal Board to M/s NKG
Infrastructure Ltd. for a total cost of Rs. 38 Crore despite the fact that the company did not
meet the technical eligibility criteria.

      ED investigation revealed that M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd obtained the bid by
submitting forged/ fake/ false documents. Jagdish Kumar Arora, the then Chief Engineer,
Delhi Jal Boad was aware of the fact that the company does not meet the technical eligibility.
He received bribe amount both in cash and bank accounts. Investigations and digital evidences
show that Jagdish Kumar Arora passed on the bribe funds to various persons connected with
managing the affairs of Delhi Jal Board including persons connected with AAP. Bribe amounts
were also passed on as Election Funds to AAP.

      ED investigation further revealed that the contract of DJB was awarded at highly inflated
rates so that the bribes could be collected from the contractors from the inflated cost of the
contract. As against the contract value of Rs. 38 Crore, only about Rs. 17 Crore was spent
towards the contract and the remaining amounts were siphoned off in guise of various fake
expenses. Such fake expenses were booked for bribes and election funds.

      During the search, various incriminating documents and digital evidences were found
and seized. Valuables amounting to Rs. 1.97 Crore and foreign currency equivalent to Rs. 4
lakh have also been seized during the search.

      ED had earlier conducted searches on 17-11-2023 and 24-07-2023 and had seized
various digital evidences. ED has also arrested Jagdish Kumar Arora and Anil Kumar Aggarwal
on 31-01-2024. The Hon’ble Court has granted ED custody till 10-02-2024.

      Further investigation is under progress.
