Retrieved original public PDF. Selected text extracted with pdftotext -layout. Original tribunal PDF page 7 omitted because it contains property addresses. Email/private prior-property locality omitted where marked. Original page numbers retained below.

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 1 ---
  APPELLATE TRIBUNAL UNDER SAFEMA AT NEW DELHI

 MP-PMLA-4757/DLI/2024 Exemp.
 MP-PMLA-4756/DLI/2024 Exemp.
 MP-PMLA-4755/DLI/2024 Stay
 FPA-PMLA-2052/DLI/2024
 M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd.          …        Appellant

 MP-PMLA-4764/DLI/2024 Exemp.
 MP-PMLA-4763/DLI/2024 Exemp.
 MP-PMLA-4762/DLI/2024 Stay
 FPA-PMLA-2059/DLI/2024
 Anil Kumar Aggarwal                  …        Appellant

 MP-PMLA-4767/DLI/2024 Exemp.
 MP-PMLA-4766/DLI/2024 Exemp.
 MP-PMLA-4765/DLI/2024 Stay
 FPA-PMLA-2060/DLI/2024
 Ms. Poonam Aggarwal                  …        Appellant

                         Versus

 The Deputy Director Directorate of
 Enforcement, Delhi                   …      Respondent


Advocates / Authorized Representatives who appeared:
For the Appellant(s)          : Mr. Nagesh Behl, Adv. Mr.
                                Sarthak Anand, Adv.

For the Respondent(s)         : Ms. Nidhi Raman, Adv.

CORAM
JUSTICE MUNISHWAR NATH BHANDARI             : CHAIRMAN
SHRI GOPAL CHANDRA MISHRA                   : MEMBER


                          ORDER
                        01.04.2026

    A batch of these appeals have been preferred to challenge

the order dated 17.09.2024 passed by the Adjudicating



                                                        Page 1

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 2 ---
Authority confirming the Provisional Attachment Order (“PAO”)

dated 26.03.2024.



Brief facts of the case:

2.   It is a case where the Central Bureau of Investment (‘CBI’),

AC-III, New Delhi registered an FIR on 06.07.2022.              It was

involving offence by high ranking officers/officials of Delhi Jal

Board (‘DJB’) and NBCC (India) Limited in association with M/s

NKG Infrastructure Limited and its director(s).         The FIR was

registered for the offence under Section 120-B read with Section

420 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (‘IPC’) and Sections 13(2)

read with 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.

After registration of the FIR, the ECIR was recorded by the

respondent followed by its investigation.



3.   The facts of the case originated from 15.12.2017 when DJB

issued notice inviting tender (NIT No.-22) to seek Supply,

Installation,   Testing    and       Commissioning          (SITC)    of

Electromagnetic flow meters, a project that included five years

Operation and Maintenance Services.              The deadline for

submission of tender was 07.02.2018 when as many as six

parties / companies participated on it.        The integrity of the

process   was   formally   raised    on    19.03.2018       when     M/s

Mechatronics    Systems    Pvt.     Ltd.   submitted    a    complaint

                                                                Page 2

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 3 ---
challenging the technical qualifications of other bidders. The

complaint specifically highlighted that M/s NKG Infrastructure

Ltd. have been involved in the project under the JNNURM

Scheme in Faridabad via NBCC. Despite a lapse of considerable

time of more than 8 years, the project remained incomplete and

deficient. The complaint lodged that M/s NKG Infrastructure

Ltd. lacked any prior experience in SCADA ( Supervisory Control

and Date Acquisition) Systems which was mandatorily a

technical requirement for the DJB contract.


4.   In reference to the complaint, the oral instructions were

issued by Shri Jagdish Kumar Arora, the then Chief Engineer

(WW) followed by inspection on 24.03.2018 at Mothuka near

Ballabgarh. The site visit was carried out by Shri Sunil Kumar

Goel and Shri Anirudh Dube. The inspection resulted in notably

corroborated      technical      concerns   revealing   significant

deficiencies especially no historical data recordings of the work

was available and the existing set up failed to demonstrate

necessary technical capability.      A draft unsigned note-sheet

within the DJB’s records explicitly confirmed that M/s NKG

Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. lacked SCADA capability and failed to

meet the eligibility criteria.


5.   Despite the documentary failures, it favoured M/s NKG

Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. through the manipulation of officials. It

                                                            Page 3

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 4 ---
was alleged that Shri D.K. Mittal (the then General Manager),

NBCC    issued    3   conflicted   performance    certificates    on

02.01.2018, 03.01.2018 and 12.03.2018 which contained

falsification information regarding work volume of SCADA

implementation.       Shri Sadhan Kumar, the then Project

Executive, NBCC alleged to have provided a fabricated deviation

statement to bypass the technical hurdles.           The process

culminated on 08.04.2018 when DJB officials, Shri Ashok

Sharma, Shri Ranjit Kumar, Shri S.K. Goel along with Shri P.K.

Gupta and Shri J.K. Arora developed a new note-sheet. The

document was designed to qualify the ineligible company

directly leading to opening its financial bids and eventually

award of contract.


6.   The   contract   of   Supply,   Installation,   Testing     and

Commission of Electromagnetic flow meter was awarded to M/s

NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. through a coordinated criminal

conspiracy involving senior public officials and private entities.

The actual estimated cost of the project was approximately of

Rs.14 Crores.     However, the contract was sanctioned at a

significantly inflated value of Rs. 38 Crores.   The contract was

secured by submission of forged performance certificates issued

by Shri D.K. Mittal, the then General Manager, NBCC (India)

limited. These fraudulent documents were reportedly prepared


                                                            Page 4

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 5 ---
at the instance of late Shri N.K. Garg, the then Director of M/s

NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and the appellant, Shri Anil Kumar

Aggarwal.


7.     Shri Jagdish Kumar Arora, the then Chief Engineer, DJB

played a pivotal role in enabling the irregular award despite a

formal complaint being filed on 01.06.2018.        Shri Jagidsh

Kumar Arora allegedly disregarded all the information and

eligibility of M/s NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd..     His action

ensured not only grant of contract to M/s NKG Infrastructure

Pvt.   Ltd.   but   subsequent   departmental   payments     were

processed without hindrance.     Following the award, the work

was sub-contracted to M/s Integral Screw Industries, a

proprietorship firm of Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal.


8.     The investigation identified Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal and

Shri Tajinder Pal Singh a long-time associate of Shri Jagdish

Kumar Arora for channelizing the illicit funds. Shri Tajinder Pal

Singh was especially responsible for managing finances and

assets of the Chief Engineer receiving bribe amounts and

deploying them for the personal benefit.   The amount of more

than Rs. 10 Crores was found to be proceeds of crime in the

hands of the person. The proceeds of crime were distributed in

the following manner:



                                                           Page 5

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 6 ---
     (i)      M/s NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. generated illegal
              commission of Rs.6,36,27,191/-. A sum of Rs.56 lakhs
              out of which was paid as a bribe to Shri Jagdish Kumar
              Arora    and   the   balance   of   Rs.5,80,27,191/-    was
              integrated into the company business operation.


     (ii)     Shri    Anil   Kumar   Aggarwal,    M/s   Integral   Screw
              Industries through the sub-contract earned proceeds
              total amounting to Rs.4.26 Crores.        He paid Rs.2.63
              lakhs to Shri Jagdish Kumar Arora to secure the
              contract and ensuring ongoing payments relating to
              Rs.1,62,95,503/-for personal expenses.


     (iii)    Shri Jagdish Kumar Aggarwal in total received an illegal
              gratification /bribe amounting to Rs. 3.19 Crores from
              both M/s NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and M/s Integral
              Screw Industries.



9.          The illicit funds were subsequently laundered through

multiple channels.            The properties were purchased by Shri

Jagdish Kumar Aggarwal and his wife Smt. Alka Arora. The

detail of which is not necessary in these appeals having been not

filed by the appellant(s) other than named above.



10. M/s NKG Infrastructure acquired proceeds of crime

amounting to Rs.5,80,27,191/- from DJB metre contract which

were retained and utilized by the company and the same has


                                                                   Page 6

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 8 ---
12. In the investigation, the witness of Shri Anil Kumar

Aggarwal confirmed that the technical claims made to secure

DJB’s contract was fraudulent.         He testified that no work

involving data transfer from servers to master control room ever

occurred in Faridabad project site.        He identified several

discrepancies in the performance certificates dated 03.01.2018

and 12.03.2018 labelling them to be ‘fake’ because they claimed

installation of 595 flow meters while only 286 flow meters were

installed.   He also noted that the actual completion date was

31.12.2017 contradicting the date 15.04.2015 as issued in the

certificates but it remained incomplete.


13. Shri D.K. Mittal, another witness admitted for issuing

signatures on performance certificate dated 02.01.2018 and

03.01.2018    followed   by   12.03.2018    to   help   M/s     NKG

Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. to meet DJB’s tender criteria.       These

documents were provided at the request of late Shri N.K. Garg

and Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal. Shri D.K. Mittal confessed for

integrating the meter account into these documents and clarified

the use locally to display only under SCADA or remote

monitoring capability were existing.


14. He further revealed that while first fund deviation

statement from the year 2013 was legitimate but subsequent

pages were fabricated and lacked proper authorized signatures.

                                                              Page 8

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 9 ---
The allegations were further fortified by Shri Sadhan Kumar in

his statement and therefore finding a case of commission of

offence and generation of proceeds of crime, the respondent

caused PAO.    It was more so when the allegations were even

supported by Shri Sushil Kumar Goel. However, while causing

provisional attachment, it was kept for value equivalent thereof

in the absence of availability of the proceeds of crime having

been vanished or laundered by the appellants.      The PAO was

confirmed by the Adjudicating authority and aggrieved with the

aforesaid the present appeals have been preferred.



Arguments of the Ld. Counsel for the appellants:
15.   Ld. Counsel for the appellants at the outset argued the

appeal of Ms. Poonam Aggarwal. It was submitted that she was

not named as an accused in the FIR and otherwise she was not

the recipient of any amount or money from her husband, Shri

Anil Kumar Aggarwal. Therefore, she was not the recipient of

the proceeds of crime, yet her property, purchased jointly by the

appellant and her husband, Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal, has been

attached. It was even in ignorance of the fact that the source to

purchase the attached property was disclosed. It was out of the

sale of the property and consideration acquired out of it which

was invested to purchase the property under provisional

attachment. Therefore, the impugned order deserves to be set-


                                                          Page 9

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 10 ---
aside on the aforesaid ground itself. In the light of the aforesaid,

the impugned order for attachment of the property in the hands

of Ms. Poonam Aggarwal has been challenged.



16.   Ld. Counsel for the appellants put much emphasis in

regard to the attachment of 1/3rd undivided share in the

basement and the terrace and half share on the ground floor of

the property purchased by the appellant jointly with her

husband, Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal for a sum of Rs.3.50 Crores.

The joint property could not have been provisionally attached by

the respondent when the appellant Ms. Poonam Aggarwal had

no connection with the commission of crime and was not

otherwise a recipient of the proceeds of crime.


17. Ld. Counsel for the appellants further, made challenge to

the attachment of the property even in the hands of Shri Anil

Kumar Aggarwal.       It was submitted that Shri Anil Kumar

Aggarwal has been booked for commission of crime, though no

evidence was produced to connect him with the crime.

Accordingly, the joint property of Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal and

the appellant, Ms. Poonam Aggarwal could not have been

attached.    It is more so when the property of aforesaid was

purchased prior to commission of crime and out of sale of

another property.    Thus, even the source was disclosed and


                                                            Page 10

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 11 ---
therefore on the aforesaid ground also, a challenge to the

attachment of the property in the hands of Shri Anil Kumar

Aggarwal was also made. The detailed arguments are specified.

The argument to challenge the attachment of the property

referring to M/s NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. was not raised as

joint property of Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal and Ms. Poonam

Aggarwal was attached.       The prayer was made to cause

interference in the impugned order and with the aforesaid

appeals may be allowed.


18. Ld. Counsel for the appellants did not raise any other

arguments than referred to above.     It is more so when this

Tribunal invited the Ld. Counsel for the appellants to make any

factual or legal issues. However, Ld. Counsel for the appellants

recorded his satisfaction to the arguments referred to above and

closed his arguments.



Arguments of Ld. Counsel for the respondent:
19. Ld. Counsel for the respondent made elaborate arguments

to contest each and every issue raised by the Ld. Counsel of the

appellants.   It would be referred while recording findings to

avoid repetition of one and the same facts and for the sake of

brevity.




                                                         Page 11

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 12 ---
Findings of the Tribunal:

20. We have considered the rival submissions and scanned the

matter carefully. In the opening paras of this order, a reference

of the FIR registered by the CBI, AC-III, New Delhi against the

officers/officials of DJB, NBCC (India) Ltd. apart from M/s NKG

Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. and its Director(s) has been given. The

allegation was not only for manipulation for acceptance of the

tender for award of contract but to be on inflated price of at Rs.

38 Crores while it could have been approximately of Rs.14

Crores.   The detailed allegation against the officers/officials of

DJB and others has been given along with reference of their

statements whereby they virtually admitted manipulation by

issuance of fraudulent performance certificates in favour of M/s

NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. so that they may get the work and

accordingly M/s NKG Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. remained the

recipient of proceeds of crime out of which Rs. 56 lakhs was paid

to Shri Jagdish Kumar Arora and balance of Rs.5,80,27,191/-

was integrated into the company business operation. Shri Anil

Kumar Aggarwal, M/s Integral Screw Industries through the

sub-contract earned proceeds total amounting to Rs.4.26

Crores. He paid Rs.2.63 lakhs to Shri Jagdish Kumar Arora to

secure the contract and to ensure ongoing payments relating to

Rs.1,62,95,503/-.    The amount aforesaid was taken to be



                                                           Page 12

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 13 ---
proceeds of crime in the hands of the appellants, Shri Anil

Kumar Aggarwal and M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd.


21. Ld. Counsel for the appellants submitted that the joint

property in the name of Ms. Poonam Aggarwal has been

provisionally attached, though, she has not been named as an

accused and otherwise not the recipient of any money from her

husband.     The joint property was purchased out of sale of

another property and the source to purchase the property was

disclosed.


22. The argument aforesaid has been raised in ignorance of the

order which clarifies that the property in the hands of Ms.

Poonam Aggarwal is not under attachment. It was taken to be a

defence on account of the joint ownership of the property under

provisional attachment. It was even clarified by the respondent

to the effect that the attachment of the property only to the

extent of Rs.1,62,95,503/- rounding off of Rs. 1.63 Crores.

There was no need to attach the property from the share of Ms.

Poonam Aggarwal.      Ld. Counsel for the appellant yet made

argument in ignorance of the reply filed by the respondent and

even reference of it in the impugned order. The relevant part of

the reply in reference to the claim of provisional attachment is

quoted hereunder:-



                                                         Page 13

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 14 ---
     “……50% of the value of Rs.3,50,00,000/- is Rs.1,75,00,000/-.
     Therefore, amount of alleged proceeds of crime of
     Rs.1,63,00,000/- is taken according to 50% of the property
     owned by Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal.
     …… Therefore, there is no need for attachment of the property
     held by Smt. Poonam Aggarwal because entire amount of alleged
     proceeds of crime is already attached in the hands of Shri Anil
     Kumar Aggarwal.


23. The paras quoted above have been ignored by the Ld.

Counsel for the appellants while arguing the case of Ms. Poonam

Aggarwal that her property to the extent of her share is not under

attachment. It is only for Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal. It is with

further submission by the respondent that the property under

provisional attachment is not acquired directly or indirectly out

of the commission of crime, rather, it is attached for the value

equivalent thereof. It was for the reason that the proceeds was

not found available with the appellants Shri Anil Kumar

Aggarwal and M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd. having been

vanished, thus, property for equivalent value was attached.       In

view of above, source to acquire the property becomes irrelevant

so as to date of its purchase i.e. prior to commission of crime.

The issue regarding attachment of the property of equivalent

value and its validity was subject matter of the judgment

recently given by the Punjab and Haryana Court in the case of

Dilbag Singh @ Dilbag Sandhu Vs. Union of India & Ors. in




                                                            Page 14

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 15 ---
CWP 22688-2024 dated 13.11.2024. The relevant paras of the

said judgment are quoted hereunder:-

    “3.2. In light of the Division Bench's judgment in Seema
    Garg's case (supra), this Bench would have been
    obligated to either follow it or refer the matter to a Larger
    Bench. However, the Supreme Court in Vijay Madanlal
    Chaudhary's case (supra) has interpreted the provision
    in para 298, which is extracted as under:


         "It was also urged before us that the attachment of
         property must be equivalent in value of the
         proceeds of crime only if the proceeds of crime are
         situated outside India. This argument, in our
         opinion, is tenuous. For, the definition of "proceeds
         of crime" is wide enough to not only refer to the
         property derived or obtained as a result of criminal
         activity relating to a scheduled offence, but also of
         the value of any such property. If the property is
         taken or held outside the country, even in such a
         case, the property equivalent in value held within
         the country or abroad can be proceeded with. The
         definition of "property" as in Section 2(1)(v) is
         equally wide enough to encompass the value of the
         property of proceeds of crime. Such interpretation
         would further the legislative intent in recovery of the
         proceeds of crime and vesting it in the Central
         Government for effective prevention of money-
         laundering."


    3.3. The aforesaid observations made by the Supreme
    Court enable this Bench to re-examine the entire issue,
    as in the considered opinion of this Bench, the judgment
    passed in Seema Garg's case (supra) is no longer a good
    law. This Court has taken this view due to the
    subsequent interpretation by the Supreme Court, which
    has superseded the legal principles established in
    Seema Garg's case (supra).


    3.4. It is evident that the original (unamended) definition
    of phrase 'proceeds of crime' was structured into two
    distinct parts. The first part relates to the property
    derived or obtained directly or indirectly by any person

                                                            Page 15

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 16 ---
as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled
offence, whereas, the second part relates to the value of
any such property where the proceeds of crime are not
traceable. This clearly means that if the property derived
or obtained, directly or indirectly, from the proceeds of a
crime of scheduled offence is not traceable, then any
property of equivalent value falls within the scope of the
expression 'proceeds of crime'. In 2015, the amendment
restructured the definition into three parts to cover the
property taken or held outside the country. The concept
of the property of equivalent value was introduced with
respect to the aforementioned properties. The
amendment enabled the authorities to go after any other
property of a person of equivalent value. In 2019, the
scope of the phrase 'proceeds of crime' was further
expanded so as to include other properties which were
not directly or indirectly the proceeds of crime, but were
held abroad, to be liable to attachment. In 2019, the
explanation has been added so as to give a wider scope
to the authorities. From the objects and reasons of the
'2002 Act', it becomes evident that the money laundering
posed a serious threat not only to the financial system of
the countries but also to their integrity and sovereignty.
The '2002 Act' was enacted to prevent money laundering
and connected activities. The act of money laundering is
a multi-layered, complex and complicated diversion of
the property, which is required to be prevented.
Consequently, the definition of proceeds of crime has
undergone transformative changes from time to time so
as to include all the complex acts involved in the offence
of money laundering.


3.5. In Axis Bank's case (Supra), the Delhi High Court has
dissected the definition in three parts while covering
tainted property and untainted property held in India;
and the 'proceeds of crime' taken out of the country or
any other property of equivalent value thereof. However,
this Court is of the considered view that the definition can
be divided into two broader categories namely tainted
properties and untainted properties. The first part
provides about the tainted properties derived or obtained
directly or indirectly by any person as a result of criminal
activity relating to a scheduled offence. Thereafter, the
untainted properties are further divided into two parts;
the first part deals with a situation where the property
derived or obtained from 'proceeds of crime' is not

                                                        Page 16

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 17 ---
traceable. In the aforesaid situation the competent
authority is authorized to attach or confiscate any other
property of accused, which is of the same value as that
of the 'proceeds of crime'. The second sub-category is a
result of amendment brought in 2015 and 2019 in the
Act. It provides that if the property derived or obtained
from the proceeds of crime has already been taken out of
the Country then the property equivalent in value held
within the Country or abroad can be made liable to be
attached. This position has been explained by the Delhi
High Court in an elaborate manner in Axis Bank's case
(supra) and Prakash Industries case (supra).

3.6. It is not disputed that the Supreme Court in Vijay
Madanlal Chaudhary's case (supra) was examining the
scope of the '2002 Act' including definition of phrase
'proceeds of crime'. The submission put forth by the
learned counsel that the phrase 'or the value of any such
property' is superfluous was rejected by the Court and it
was held that the definition of 'proceeds of crime' is wide
enough to not only include to the property derived or
obtained as a result of criminal activity related to a
schedule offence but also any other property of
equivalent value.


3.7. While interpreting a statutory provision, it is the
bounden duty of the Courts to interpret it in manner so
that each word used by the statute conveys a meaning it
was assigned by the Legislature. The words used in
statute are of utmost significance. The Court cannot
widen or restrict the provisions on its own whims and
fancies. When a statute's language is clear and
unambiguous, the general rule of interpretation of statute
is to read the provision as a whole and the Court must
adhere strictly to the ordinary, plain meaning of the
words used. The words in a statute are used precisely,
not loosely, and efforts must be made to interpret them
in a literal manner to give effect to the objective of the Act.
This approach of interpretation is based on the idea that
the legislature's intent is best reflected in the exact words
of the statute.


3.8. Moreover, the reasoning adopted in Seema Garg's
case (supra) to the effect that there was no need to insert
third part in the definition of the 'proceeds of crime' and

                                                          Page 17

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 18 ---
      that 'value of such property' is superfluous does not
      appear sound. It appears that transformative journey of
      the definition of phrase 'proceeds of crime' was not
      brought to the notice of the Division Bench in Seema
      Garg's case (supra). In Abdullah Ali Balsharaf's case
      (supra), Delhi High Court inadvertently overlooked the
      sub-category (i) of second part of definition of 'proceeds
      of crime'. Similarly, Andhra Pradesh High Court in Kumar
      Pappu Singh's case (supra) was not properly assisted.
      Furthermore, the attention of Patna High Court was not
      drawn to part 2(i) in HDFC Bank's case (supra). Similar
      is the position in M/s. Himachal Amta Power Limited's
      case (supra). In this case, the attention of the Bench was
      not drawn to the second broader category of the
      definition. In Hemanshu Rajnikant Shah's case (supra)
      the Court relied upon Seema Garg's case (supra) and held
      that the properties acquired before the alleged crime and
      before the enforcement of the '2002 Act' cannot be
      attached.

      3.9. On the other hand the judgments passed in Vijay
      Madanlal Chaudhary's case (supra), Axis Bank's case
      (supra) and Prakash Industries case (supra) completely
      answer the question in favour of ED.

      3.10. The petitioner's counsel has also heavily relied
      upon Pavana Dibbur's case (supra). This Bench has
      carefully    read    the   aforesaid        judgment.     The
      aforementioned case involved attachment of property
      falling under the category of 'direct' or 'indirect' proceeds
      of crime. The complaint under Section 44-45 of 2002 Act
      was quashed by the Supreme Court. The Bench was
      never called upon to analyse the contentions based upon
      Section 2(i)(u) of 2002 Act, whereas, in Vijay Madanlal
      Chaudhary's case (supra) the Court directly answered
      the aforesaid question. Hence, there is no substance in
      the first argument of learned counsel for petitioner”.



24.   In the light of the judgment referred to above, there was

no illegality to attach the property for value equivalent to the

proceeds of crime. However, it can be when the proceeds of



                                                              Page 18

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 19 ---
crime is not found available or vanished by the recipient of the

proceeds.



25. In view of the discussions made above, even the argument

raised in reference to Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal and M/s NKG

Infrastructure Ltd. to challenge the impugned order cannot be

assailed.


26. Ld. Counsel for the appellants submitted that so far as Ms.

Poonam Aggarwal is concerned, she was not named as an

accused because she is not the recipient of any amount from her

husband. The argument has been raised in ignorance of the fact

that her property to the extent of her share is not under

attachment.   The attachment of her joint property of Rs.3.50

Crores is to the extent of Rs. 1.63 Crores i.e. less than 50% of

the share of the appellant, Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal. Therefore,

no case is made out to cause interference in the impugned order.


27. We may refer to the statements of Shri Anil Kumar

Aggarwal, Shri Ashok Sharma, Shri D.K. Mittal, Shri Sadhan

Kumar and Shri Sushil Kumar Goel which are sufficient to make

out the allegations levied against M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd.

and Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal. It is for that reason alone that

they were named as accused in the Prosecution Complaint filed

before the Special Court, PMLA and cognizance of the offence

                                                         Page 19

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 20 ---
has already been taken by the Ld. Court. There is no challenge

to the cognizance of the offence against the appellant, Shri Anil

Kumar Aggarwal and M/s NKG Infrastructure Ltd. and

otherwise their deeds have been highlighted in the impugned

order and have been referred by us to the extent of clarifying the

arguments raised by the appellants. We may, however, refer to

a gist of the rejoinder submitted by the respondent against Shri

Anil Kumar Aggarwal which is quoted hereunder for ready

reference: -


     Gist of the rejoinder of Defendant No.3:

     (a) The role of Sh. Anil Kumar Aggarwal in the commission of offence
     of money laundering and gamut of activities connected to itis pivotal,
     as has been unambiguously illustrated in the Original Complaint no.
     2275/2024 and the provisional attachment of properties of the
     defendant has been carried out after formation of cogent reasons to
     believe as per the requirements of the Prevention of Money
     Laundering Act, 2002 and the same have been supplied duly to the
     Adjudicating Authority as per the requirements of Section 5(2) of
     PMLA.

     (b) The defendant has stated in his statement recorded u/s 50 of
     PMLA on 17.01.2024 that he has generated profit of 5-6% of the
     funds received from NKG Infrastructure in the SITC Flow-meter
     contract of DJB (Package C) and he had profit of Rs. 1.10 Crores
     approximately from said DJB tender. Further, investigation revealed
     that Integral Screw Industries had booked bogus purchases in name
     of various entities and generated cash funds to the tune of Rs.
     2,42,95,503/- in the same time when funds and from the same
     bank accounts wherein funds from DJB through M/s NKG
     Infrastructure were received by Integral Screw Industries Further
     M/s Integral Screw Industries had paid bribe through banking
     channel of Rs. 73.50 lakhs to entities associated with Tajinder Pal
     Singh on behalf of Jagdish Kumar Arora... Thus, funds to the tune
     of at least Rs. 4,26,45,503/-(Rs. 1.10 Crores + Rs. 2.42.95.503/-
     Rs. 73.50 lakhs) were not utilised for performance and execution of
     the DJB contract and out of this amount. funds to the tune of Rs.


                                                                    Page 20

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 21 ---
2,63,50,000/- (Rs. 1.90 Crores in form of cash and Rs. 73.50 lakhs
through banking channels) were paid as bribe for Jagdish Kumar
Arora and Proceeds of Crime of R 1,62,95,503/- acquired and
retained by Anil Kumar Aggarwal illegally in DJB contract of SITC
of Electromagnetic Flowmeters at various sites of DJB. As per
analysis of bank statements of M/s Integral Screw Industries and
statements of Anil Kumar Aggarwal and employees of M/s Integral
Screw Industries, the said PoC had been utilized by Anil Kumar
Aggarwal for his own expenses and the same had been dissipated
and hence deficient for the attachment. Therefore the present
property of Rs. 3,50,00,000/-has been provisionally attached to the
extent of Rs. 1,62,95,503/- in terms of 'value of any such property
as per section 2(1)(u) of PMLA, 2002 vide PAO No. 07/2024 dated
26.03.2024 and details of payments made for the purchase of the
said property is provided.

c) Further, defendant has provided the details of source of purchase
of present property which is sale proceeds of his property at [private prior-property locality omitted]. In this regard, it is submitted that Anil Kumar Aggarwal
had dissipated the proceeds of Crime of Rs. 1,62,95,503/- in by
incurring business expenses or personal expenses and therefore the
present property has been attached as in terms of 'value of any such
property as per section 2(1)(u) of PMLA, 2002 and not as direct PoC.

(d) The Statement of Sh. Devender Kumar Mittal are recorded u/s
50 of PMLA without any coercion, pressure and threat and recorded
with corroborating evidences. Further. The email confronted to him
during the said statement are also part of DJB (records, these emails
on the email ID [professional email omitted] were sent by DJB officials
for confirming the authenticity of the documents in response to this
he     had     replied   vide     email   dated     05.04.2018     from
[professional email omitted] to the DJB enclosing the letter dated
04.04.2018, which was shown to him during statement and he
identified his signature on said letter stating that "This letter is
signed by me", therefore he identified his signature and confirmed
the authenticity of said letter. Further, if D K Mittal had not issued
these certificates, then why it was not replied by him to the DJB
official stating that those certificates were forged after receiving the
email for confirming the authenticity, being a Senior Public Servant
at that time, it was the responsibility of him to report such forgery
with DJB officials as well as other law enforcement agencies.
Further, it is submitted that application filed by Sh. Devender Kumar
Mittal for retraction of Statements dated 23.11.2023 recorded u/s
50 of PMLA are devoid of supporting evidence and hence therefore
has no basis in law and the said application has been as an
afterthought aiming for delaying of trial and the Hon'ble Rouse
Avenue Court has dismissed the said application in its order dated


                                                                 Page 21

--- ORIGINAL PDF PAGE 22 ---
     29.05.2024 citing that "Nothing is required to be done at this stage
     and the same can be considered at the appropriate stage."

     (e) The defendant has filed a bail application before the Hon'ble
     Special Court (PMLA) and this Original Complaint has been pending
     for confirmation before Ld. Adjudicating Authority. As both the
     Authority/legal fora work under different provisions of PMLA and
     proceedings are civil in nature before Ld. Adjudicating Authority and
     criminal before Hon'ble Special Court (PMLA). Therefore, the said bail
     application is irrelevant here.”


28. The para quoted above shows how the proceeds of crime

was received by Shri Anil Kumar Aggarwal and accordingly

provisional attachment of the property was caused for equivalent

value.



29. In the light of the discussions made above, we do not find

any cause to interfere in the impugned order and accordingly

appeals fail and are dismissed.




                         (Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari)
                                           Chairman


                                       (Gopal Chandra Mishra)
                                               Member


NEW DELHI
01.04.2026
‘MB’




                                                                    Page 22
