       Press Release



                                                          Honnavar Port Private Limited
                                                                         January 22, 2025
     Facilities/Instruments                                    Amount (₹ crore)                           Rating1             Rating Action

     Long-term bank facilities                                         500.00                      CARE BBB-; Stable           Reaffirmed
Details of instruments/facilities in Annexure-1.
Rationale and key rating drivers
The rating assigned to the long-term bank facilities of Honnavar Port Private Limited (HPPL) continues to consider the established
promoter group and synergies in business linkages with shared infrastructure and treasury function, besides management and
financial support from the parent.
CARE Ratings Limited (CARE Ratings) expects continued sponsor support in the project implementation stage and until the
stabilisation of operations. The rating also factors in the favourable port location with proximity to the major mining belts of
Karnataka, resolution of litigations, receipt of environmental clearance, and sponsor support in the form of fund infusion to an
extent of 30% of the overall commitment at the project’s nascent stage.
However, the rating is tempered by the delayed project commencement with prolonged delays in obtaining regulatory approvals,
non-achievement of financial closure with debt tie-up still pending, the project’s nascent stage, marketing risk associated post
completion of the project, and inherent interest rate risk. CARE Ratings notes the company has received environmental clearance
in December 2024 and the work on the port is expected to commence from February 2025.
Rating sensitivities: Factors likely to lead to rating actions
Positive factors:
•       Commencement of project work with substantial project progress.
•       Achievement of envisaged cargo volumes at above 70% on a consistent basis.

Negative factors:
•       Significant time and/or cost overruns in the project, impacting the credit profile.
•       Adverse variations in the credit profile of the sponsor.
•       Non-receipt of the envisaged sponsor support in a timely manner.

Analytical approach:
Standalone, factoring in linkages with the parent, GVPR Engineers Limited (GVPREL).


Outlook: Stable
The stable outlook is based on the expectations of project completion within the scheduled timeline as well as business growth,
supported by the strong and experienced promoter, GVPREL.

Detailed description of key rating drivers:
Key strengths
Experienced promoter and diversified order book in the construction industry
GVPREL has over 27 years of experience in the construction engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) business, with
focus on projects in water resource management, lift irrigation, sewage treatment plant (STP), electricity, drinking water, and
more. It has a robust order book of ₹11,817 crore as on October 31, 2024, which provides medium term revenue visibility. The
order book is geographically diversified, with work across nine states, with 99.63% orders in water supply (46%), irrigation (29%),
sewage treatment (21%), and pipe works (4%), whereas the balance portion is road works. The order book also derives comfort
from the in-built price escalation clauses in almost all orders, which safeguards the company against significantly adverse raw
material price movements.



1
    Complete definition of ratings assigned are available at www.careedge.in and other CARE Ratings Limited’s publications.


            1                                                                                                                  CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



GVPREL reported a robust operating performance with growth in total operating income (TOI) at a compound annual growth rate
(CAGR) of 43.62% from ₹1,441 crore in FY21 to ₹4,268 crore in FY24. The TOI grew by 63% on a year-over-year (y-o-y) basis
in FY24. The profit before interest, lease rentals, depreciation and taxation (PBILDT) margin shrunk from 10-10.5% in FY21-FY23
period to 8.53% for FY24. However, this has improved to 13.19% in H1FY25.

Strong linkages with parent entity
HPPL is a subsidiary of GVPREL, with GVPREL holding 94% shares. Considering the parent-subsidiary relationship, GVPREL
provides management and operational support. HPPL also has access to a common group treasury, giving it financial flexibility.
The promoters have infused ~30% committed equity by way of equity infusion and unsecured loans amounting to ₹61.86 crore
as on October 31, 2024. There is a clear articulation of sponsor support in project execution and operational phases by way of
proposed sponsor support undertaking likely to be executed in the financial closure, with the sponsor expected to provide support
to HPPL in case of cost overrun.

Acquiring necessary clearances and approvals
HPPL has obtained requisite approvals and clearances including coastal regulatory clearances, the no objection certificate (NOC)
from the Grama Panchayat Corporation Limited, power sanction from Hubbali Electrical Supply Company Limited, and
environmental clearance among others. With the expiry of validity of environmental clearance (EC) in September 2024, the
company has subsequently received fresh environmental clearance on December 31, 2024, allowing port construction to
commence. With receipt of the EC, the company does not have pending approvals. HPPL is in discussion with banks for debt tie-
up, the financial closure of which is expected in the next two-three months.

Strategic location of the port
The port has a locational advantage as it falls on the west coast of India in Karnataka, with proximity to the major mining districts
in the state. With a throughput of 4.9 million metric tonne per annum (MMTPA), the port is envisaged to handle bulk solids, such
as coal, iron-ore, steel, and granite. The port is closer by road to the iron-ore rich belt of Bellary-Hospet and the granite-rich belt
of Chitradurga-Tumkur. These belts have an abundance of steel and thermal plants, which depend on the continuous supply of
non-coking and coking coal, respectively. The port is well connected to roadways, with NH-66 (straight distance of ~2.58 km
from the port location) connecting mainline to the port’s entrance with a four-lane road as part of the Bharatmala project.
Considering railways, although the Honnavar railway station is ~5 km from the port location, connectivity to the hinterland through
railways was limited due to the lack of viable connect between Konkan railway line and South-Western railway line. The National
Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is extending the existing four-lane to connect the port with railways. The company is also in
discussion with Konkan Railways for roll-on roll-off (Ro-Ro) services for the port’s cargo.


Key weaknesses

Limited port capacity
HPPL is constructing a minor port on the west coast with a capacity of 4.9 MTPA. It is likely to cater coastal cargo with higher
dependence on coal, followed by iron-ore, steel, and granite, given the proximity to the Bellary-Hospet belt (at 380 km). The port
is envisaged to have a draft of 10 m, restricting the ability to handle large-sized vessels.

Execution risk and pending achievement of financial closure
The port was originally allotted in 2011 by the Government of Karnataka (GoK), but project execution was held back due to
regulatory clearances and approvals and the case pending with NGT. HPPL was the first greenfield project initiated by the sponsor,
GVPREL, in the build-operate-transfer (BOT) segment.
A considerable degree of construction risk is prevalent as the port is still in its nascent stage, with major port-related work pending,
such as dredging, and breakwater construction, among others. The aggregate project cost is estimated at ₹702 crore (increased
from ₹625 crore as envisaged earlier), proposed to be financed through a debt-to-equity ratio of 2.33:1. The financial closure is


        2                                                                                                         CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



pending in the next two months. With the receipt of fresh environmental clearance on December 31, 2024, and the pending debt
tie-up, the project is likely to be completed by September 2027 from the previously envisioned October 2024.

Cargo evacuation risk
There is no rail connectivity from the port, increasing cargo evacuation risk for it. The port’s connectivity to the hinterland through
railways is weak and is logistically unfeasible, with weak connect between Konkan Railways and South-Western Railways.
Therefore, the nearby ports of Mormugao, Krishnapatnam, and New Mangalore are more viable for shuttling cargo to-and-fro the
hinterland.


Liquidity: Adequate
The company’s liquidity profile is expected to be adequate, given the comfortable financial position and healthy liquidity available
with the sponsors with timely contribution for funding the project and articulation of sponsor support in the project execution
phase.


Applicable criteria
 Definition of Default
 Factoring Linkages Parent Sub JV Group
 Liquidity Analysis of Non-financial sector entities
 Rating Outlook and Rating Watch
 Port & Port services
 Financial Ratios – Non financial Sector
 Project stage companies
 Infrastructure Sector Ratings

About the company and industry
Industry classification
 Macroeconomic indicator           Sector                           Industry                          Basic industry
 Services                          Services                         Transport infrastructure          Port and port services

HPPL is formed under the consortium of GVPREL and North Canara Seaports Private Limited. The company was incorporated on
March 30, 2010, having its registered office in Bengaluru. HPPL is setting up a greenfield minor port on the west coast of India
(in Uttar Kannada, Karnataka), which is envisaged to handle 4.9 MTPA throughput. HPPL entered a lease agreement with the GoK
on March 14, 2018, for usage of the land for port-related activities for 30 years.
The project’s cost is ₹702 crore, proposed to be funded through a debt-to-equity ratio of 2.33:1.


Brief financials: Not applicable, as the commercial operations have not commenced.

Status of non-cooperation with previous CRA: Not applicable

Any other information: Not applicable

Rating history for last three years: Annexure-2

Detailed explanation of covenants of rated instrument / facility: Annexure-3

Complexity level of instruments rated: Annexure-4

Lender details: Annexure-5




         3                                                                                                       CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Annexure-1: Details of instruments/facilities

                                           Date of                                                               Rating
                                                                              Maturity       Size of the
 Name of the                              Issuance             Coupon                                         Assigned and
                           ISIN                                              Date (DD-          Issue
 Instrument                               (DD-MM-             Rate (%)                                           Rating
                                                                             MM-YYYY)         (₹ crore)
                                           YYYY)                                                                Outlook
 Fund-based -                                                                                                   CARE BBB-;
                                               -                    -            NA            500.00
 LT-Term Loan*                                                                                                    Stable
*Proposed


Annexure-2: Rating history for last three years
                                               Current Ratings                              Rating History

                                                                             Date(s)     Date(s)     Date(s)       Date(s)
                Name of the
                                                                             and         and         and           and
  Sr. No.       Instrument/Bank                    Amount
                                                                             Rating(s)   Rating(s)   Rating(s)     Rating(s)
                Facilities          Type           Outstanding      Rating
                                                                             assigned    assigned    assigned      assigned
                                                   (₹ crore)
                                                                             in 2024-    in 2023-    in 2022-      in 2021-
                                                                             2025        2024        2023          2022
                                                                                         1)CARE      1)CARE
                                                                    CARE                 BBB-;       BBB-;
                Fund-based - LT-
     1                                  LT           500.00         BBB-;    -           Stable      Stable        -
                Term Loan
                                                                    Stable               (05-Dec-    (12-Jan-
                                                                                         23)         23)
LT: Long term


Annexure-3: Detailed explanation of covenants of rated instruments/facilities: Not applicable

Annexure-4: Complexity level of instruments rated
                    Sr. No.                  Name of the Instrument                            Complexity Level
                       1                     Fund-based - LT-Term Loan                               Simple


Annexure-5: Lender details
 To view lender-wise details of bank facilities please click here


Note on complexity levels of rated instruments: CARE Ratings has classified instruments rated by it based on complexity.
Investors/market intermediaries/regulators or others are welcome to write to care@careedge.in for clarifications.




         4                                                                                                 CARE Ratings Ltd.
    Press Release



                                                                             Contact us




 Media Contact                                                                         Analytical Contacts

 Mradul Mishra                                                                         Puja Jalan
 Director                                                                              Director
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  CARE Ratings Limited
 Phone: +91-22-6754 3596                                                               Phone: 914040020131
 E-mail: mradul.mishra@careedge.in                                                     E-mail: puja.jalan@careedge.in

 Relationship Contact                                                                  Tej Kiran Ghattamaneni
                                                                                       Assistant Director
 Saikat Roy                                                                            CARE Ratings Limited
 Senior Director                                                                       Phone: 914040020131
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  E-mail: tej.kiran@careedge.in
 Phone: 912267543404
 E-mail: saikat.roy@careedge.in                                                        Chirag Ronak Das
                                                                                       Analyst
                                                                                       CARE Ratings Limited
                                                                                       E-mail: Chirag.Das@careedge.in


About us:
Established in 1993, CARE Ratings is one of the leading credit rating agencies in India. Registered under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India, it has been acknowledged as an External Credit Assessment Institution by the RBI. With an equitable
position in the Indian capital market, CARE Ratings provides a wide array of credit rating services that help corporates raise capital
and enable investors to make informed decisions. With an established track record of rating companies over almost three decades,
CARE Ratings follows a robust and transparent rating process that leverages its domain and analytical expertise, backed by the
methodologies congruent with the international best practices. CARE Ratings has played a pivotal role in developing bank debt
and capital market instruments, including commercial papers, corporate bonds and debentures, and structured credit.

Disclaimer:
The ratings issued by CARE Ratings are opinions on the likelihood of timely payment of the obligations under the rated instrument and are not recommendations to
sanction, renew, disburse, or recall the concerned bank facilities or to buy, sell, or hold any security. These ratings do not convey suitability or price for the investor.
The agency does not constitute an audit on the rated entity. CARE Ratings has based its ratings/outlook based on information obtained from reliable and credible
sources. CARE Ratings does not, however, guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of any information and is not responsible for any errors or omissions
and the results obtained from the use of such information. Most entities whose bank facilities/instruments are rated by CARE Ratings have paid a credit rating fee,
based on the amount and type of bank facilities/instruments. CARE Ratings or its subsidiaries/associates may also be involved with other commercial transactions with
the entity. In case of partnership/proprietary concerns, the rating/outlook assigned by CARE Ratings is, inter-alia, based on the capital deployed by the
partners/proprietors and the current financial strength of the firm. The ratings/outlook may change in case of withdrawal of capital, or the unsecured loans brought
in by the partners/proprietors in addition to the financial performance and other relevant factors. CARE Ratings is not responsible for any errors and states that it has
no financial liability whatsoever to the users of the ratings of CARE Ratings. The ratings of CARE Ratings do not factor in any rating-related trigger clauses as per the
terms of the facilities/instruments, which may involve acceleration of payments in case of rating downgrades. However, if any such clauses are introduced and
triggered, the ratings may see volatility and sharp downgrades.


                                        For detailed Rationale Report and subscription information,
                                                       please visit www.careedge.in




          5                                                                                                                                     CARE Ratings Ltd.
