       Press Release



                                                          Honnavar Port Private Limited
                                                                          March 31, 2026


    Facilities/Instruments                                     Amount (₹ crore)                          Rating1                  Rating Action

    Long Term Bank Facilities                                          500.00                      CARE BBB-; Stable               Reaffirmed
Details of instruments/facilities in Annexure-1.


Rationale and key rating drivers
The reaffirmation of the long-term rating assigned to the bank facilities of Honnavar Port Private Limited (HPPL) reflects the
presence of an established promoter group and strong business synergies through shared infrastructure and a common treasury
function, along with demonstrated management and financial support from the parent, GVPR Engineers Limited (GVPREL).
Comfort is also derived from the Sponsor Support Undertaking to be extended by GVPREL, in line with financing agreement terms,
towards project cost overrun, timely equity infusion and assistance in debt servicing in the event of cash flow shortfalls, including
those arising from lower-than-anticipated cargo throughput, for the entire tenure of the loan. CARE Ratings Limited (CareEdge
Ratings) expects continued sponsor support during the project implementation phase and until stabilisation of operations.

The rating further factors in achievement of financial closure in September 2025, the favourable port location with proximity to
major mining belts in Karnataka, resolution of litigations, receipt of environmental clearance, and sponsor support through fund
infusion amounting to 32% of the overall project commitment at the nascent stage.

However, the rating strengths are tempered by delays in project commencement due to prolonged regulatory approval timelines,
the project’s nascent stage of development, marketing risks post project completion, and inherent interest rate risk. The company
received Environmental Clearance in December 2024 and pre-construction work commenced in August 2025. Subsequently, civil
works commenced from January 2026 onwards. Out of overall project cost of Rs.789.59 crore, HPPL has incurred an amount of
Rs.80 crore as on December 31, 2025, financed entirely through the promoter’s contribution and debt drawal pending as on said
date. The project is envisaged to be completed by September 2027.


Rating sensitivities: Factors likely to lead to rating actions

Positive factors

•       Substantial project progress as per envisaged timelines.
•       Achievement of envisaged cargo volumes at above 70% on a consistent basis.

Negative factors
•       Significant time and/or cost overruns in the project, impacting the credit profile.
•       Adverse variations in the credit profile of the sponsor.
•       Non-receipt of the envisaged sponsor support in a timely manner

Analytical approach:
Standalone, factoring in linkages with the parent, GVPR Engineers Limited (GVPREL).

Outlook: Stable
The stable outlook is based on the expectations of project completion within the scheduled timeline as well as business growth,
supported by the strong and experienced promoter, GVPREL.




1
    Complete definition of ratings assigned are available at www.careratings.com and other CARE Ratings Limited’s publications.


            1                                                                                                                      CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Detailed description of key rating drivers:
Key strengths
Experienced promoter and diversified order book in the construction industry
GVPREL has over 28 years of experience in the engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) segment, with execution
capabilities across water resource management, lift irrigation, sewage treatment plants (STPs), electricity, and drinking water
projects.

The company reported a robust order book of ₹18,637 crore as on January 31, 2026 (as against Rs.11,817 crore as on October
31, 2024), providing healthy medium-term revenue visibility. The order book is geographically diversified across ten states, with
segment-wise exposure to water supply (52%), irrigation (19%), sewage treatment (10%), industrial corridor development
(13%), and electrical works (5%). Most contracts include in-built price escalation clauses, which mitigate the impact of adverse
raw material price volatility.

GVPREL reported a revenue compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 29% during FY21–FY25. Revenue increased significantly
from ₹1,411 crore in FY21 to ₹4,005 crore in FY25. There was slight moderation in revenue from ₹4,268 crore in FY24 to ₹4,005
crore in FY25 (around 6% decline), this was mainly due to the extended monsoon and impact of state elections in Maharashtra,
which accounts for a significant share of the company’s order book. Despite the moderation in revenue, the operating margin
improved from 8.52% in FY24 to 9.35% in FY25. Margins were lower in FY24 due to execution of select low-margin projects,
while normalisation in FY25 was driven by a more favourable project mix. Operating margin further improved to 11.33% in
9MFY26.

The financial profile has also been comfortable with TOL/TNW of 0.84x as on March 31, 2025, and a debt/EBITDA of 1.61 in
FY25. The credit profile is also supported through large liquid funds of Rs.1,322 crore as on December 31, 2025.

GVPREL has balance investment commitment of Rs.193 crore in two project SPVs (HPPL and the smart meter project in West
Bengal) which is expected to be comfortably met through cash accruals.

Strong linkages with parent entity
HPPL is a subsidiary of GVPREL, which holds a 94% equity stake. The parent provides management and operational support to
HPPL, and the company has access to the group treasury, enhancing financial flexibility.

The promoters have infused approximately 32% of the committed equity through equity infusion and unsecured loans aggregating
₹79.48 crore as on December 31, 2025. In terms with the financing Agreement of Power Finance Corporation Ltd (PFC) for loans
availed by HPPL, Sponsor shall provide an undertaking before the debt drawal. The sponsor undertaking shall cover commitments
towards timely equity infusion, support for cost overruns, and assistance in debt servicing in the event of cash flow shortfalls,
including those arising from lower-than-anticipated cargo throughput, for the entire tenure of the PFC loan. GVPREL is also likely
to extend a corporate guarantee for a limited period of 2–3 years from commencement of operations, as per PFC requirement.

Commencement of construction
HPPL has obtained key approvals and clearances, including coastal regulatory clearance, no objection certificate (NOC) from the
Grama Panchayat Corporation Limited, power sanction from Hubbali Electrical Supply Company Limited, and environmental
clearance. Following the expiry of the earlier environmental clearance in September 2024, the company received a fresh
environmental clearance on December 31, 2024, enabling commencement of port construction. Post receipt of the environmental
clearance, there are no major pending approvals.

HPPL achieved financial closure on September 24, 2025, with debt of ₹540.64 crore sanctioned by PFC. Pre-construction activities,
including dredging and breakwater works, have been completed, and civil construction commenced from January 2026 onwards,
reducing execution and regulatory risks.




        2                                                                                                    CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Strategic location of the port
The port enjoys a locational advantage on the west coast of India in Karnataka, with proximity to major mining districts. With a
designed throughput capacity of 4.9 million metric tonnes per annum (MMTPA), the port is envisaged to handle bulk cargo such
as coal, iron ore, steel, and granite.

The port is well positioned by road to the iron ore–rich Bellary–Hospet belt and the granite-rich Chitradurga–Tumkur belt, which
support demand from steel plants and thermal power stations. Road connectivity is supported by National Highway 66 (NH-66),
located around 2.58 km from the port, with a four-lane access road under the Bharatmala project.

Rail connectivity is relatively limited, as although Honnavar railway station is around 5 km from the port, linkage between the
Konkan Railway line and the South-Western Railway network remains constrained. However, the National Highways Authority of
India (NHAI) is extending the four-lane connectivity to improve linkage with rail infrastructure. The company is also in discussions
with Konkan Railway for roll-on roll-off (Ro-Ro) services to support cargo evacuation.


Key weaknesses
Limited port capacity and draft constraints
HPPL is constructing a minor port on the west coast with a limited capacity of 4.9 million tonnes per annum (MTPA). The port is
likely to cater largely to coastal cargo, with higher dependence on coal, followed by iron ore, steel, and granite, supported by
proximity to the Bellary–Hospet belt (around 380 km).

The envisaged draft of 10 metres restricts the port’s ability to handle large-sized vessels, thereby limiting cargo handling flexibility
and scalability. This constrains diversification of cargo mix and may restrict the port’s competitive positioning in the medium term.

Significant project execution risk
The port was originally allotted in 2011 by the Government of Karnataka (GoK); however, execution was delayed due to regulatory
approvals and litigation pending with the National Green Tribunal (NGT). HPPL represents the first greenfield project undertaken
by the sponsor, GVPREL, under the build-operate-transfer (BOT) framework.

Project implementation risk is perceived high as the project is at a nascent stage, with only pre-construction activities and limited
civil works completed. The aggregate project cost is estimated at ₹789.58 crore (revised from ₹702 crore envisaged earlier) and
is financed at a debt-to-equity ratio of 2.17:1.

Pre-construction works commenced in August 2025, and financial closure was achieved in September 2025. The project is targeted
to be completed by its SCOD of October 2027; any delay beyond this timeline could adversely impact cash flow visibility and debt
servicing ability. Sponsor support to meet any such shortfall in a timely manner shall be crucial.

Cargo evacuation risk
Absence of direct rail connectivity increases cargo evacuation risk for the port. Rail-based connectivity to the hinterland remains
weak and logistically unfeasible due to limited linkage between Konkan Railway and South-Western Railway networks.
As a result, nearby ports such as Mormugao, Krishnapatnam, and New Mangalore are relatively more viable for cargo movement
to and from the hinterland, which could constrain cargo ramp-up and utilisation levels at HPPL, especially in the initial years of
operations.


Liquidity: Adequate
The company’s liquidity profile is expected to remain adequate, supported by the sponsors’ comfortable financial position and
availability of liquidity for timely contribution towards project funding. Sponsor support during the project execution phase and
an extended repayment tenor of 132 structured monthly instalments, with a six-month moratorium post achievement of COD,
are expected to provide cushion to cashflows and adequate time for stabilisation.



        3                                                                                                         CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Assumptions/Covenants: Not Applicable

Environment, social, and governance (ESG) risks: Not Applicable

Applicable criteria
 Definition of Default
 Factoring Linkages Parent Sub JV Group
 Liquidity Analysis of Non-financial sector entities
 Rating Outlook and Rating Watch
 Port & Port services
 Financial Ratios – Non financial Sector
 Project stage companies
 Infrastructure Sector Ratings

About the company and industry

Industry classification
 Macroeconomic indicator           Sector                            Industry                       Basic industry
 Services                          Services                          Transport Infrastructure       Port & Port services
HPPL is formed under the consortium of GVPREL and North Canara Seaports Private Limited. The company was incorporated on
March 30, 2010, having its registered office in Bengaluru. HPPL is setting up a greenfield minor port on the west coast of India
(in Uttar Kannada, Karnataka), which is envisaged to handle 4.9 MTPA throughput. HPPL entered a lease agreement with the GoK
on March 14, 2018, for usage of the land for port-related activities for 30 years. The project’s cost is ₹789.59 crore, being funded
through a debt-to-equity ratio of 2.17:1.


Brief Financials: Not Applicable for Project Stage Entities

Status of non-cooperation with previous CRA: Not Applicable

Any other information: Not Applicable

Rating history for last three years: Annexure-2

Detailed explanation of covenants of rated instrument / facility: Annexure-3

Complexity level of instruments rated: Annexure-4

Lender details: Annexure-5


Annexure-1: Details of instruments/facilities

                                             Date of                                                                 Rating
                                                                                Maturity         Size of the
 Name of the                                Issuance           Coupon                                             Assigned and
                         ISIN                                                  Date (DD-            Issue
 Instrument                                 (DD-MM-           Rate (%)                                               Rating
                                                                               MM-YYYY)           (₹ crore)
                                             YYYY)                                                                  Outlook
 Fund-based -                                                                                                       CARE BBB-;
                                               -                 -              01-03-2039          500.00
 LT-Term Loan                                                                                                         Stable




       4                                                                                                       CARE Ratings Ltd.
   Press Release



Annexure-2: Rating history for last three years
                                               Current Ratings                              Rating History

                                                                             Date(s)     Date(s)     Date(s)     Date(s)
                Name of the
                                                                             and         and         and         and
  Sr. No.       Instrument/Bank                  Amount
                                                                             Rating(s)   Rating(s)   Rating(s)   Rating(s)
                Facilities          Type         Outstanding        Rating
                                                                             assigned    assigned    assigned    assigned
                                                 (₹ crore)
                                                                             in 2025-    in 2024-    in 2023-    in 2022-
                                                                             2026        2025        2024        2023
                                                                                         1)CARE      1)CARE      1)CARE
                                                                    CARE                 BBB-;       BBB-;       BBB-;
                Fund-based - LT-
     1                                  LT          500.00          BBB-;    -           Stable      Stable      Stable
                Term Loan
                                                                    Stable               (22-Jan-    (05-Dec-    (12-Jan-
                                                                                         25)         23)         23)
LT: Long term


Annexure-3: Detailed explanation of covenants of rated instruments/facilities: Not Applicable

Annexure-4: Complexity level of instruments rated
                    Sr. No.                  Name of the Instrument                            Complexity Level
                       1                     Fund-based - LT-Term Loan                               Simple


Annexure-5: Lender details
 To view lender-wise details of bank facilities please click here


Note on complexity levels of rated instruments: CareEdge Ratings has classified instruments rated by it based on
complexity. Investors/market intermediaries/regulators or others are welcome to write to care@careedge.in for clarifications.




         5                                                                                               CARE Ratings Ltd.
    Press Release



                                                                             Contact us



 Media Contact                                                                         Analytical Contacts

 Mradul Mishra                                                                         Puja Jalan
 Director                                                                              Director
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  CARE Ratings Limited
 Phone: +91-22-6754 3596                                                               Phone: 914040020131
 E-mail: mradul.mishra@careedge.in                                                     E-mail: puja.jalan@careedge.in

 Relationship Contact                                                                  Tej Kiran Ghattamaneni
                                                                                       Associate Director
 Saikat Roy                                                                            CARE Ratings Limited
 Senior Director                                                                       Phone: 914040020131
 CARE Ratings Limited                                                                  E-mail: tej.kiran@careedge.in
 Phone: 912267543404
 E-mail: saikat.roy@careedge.in                                                        Chirag Ronak Das
                                                                                       Analyst
                                                                                       CARE Ratings Limited
                                                                                       E-mail: Chirag.Das@careedge.in


About us:
Established in 1993, CareEdge Ratings is one of the leading credit rating agencies in India. Registered under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India, it has been acknowledged as an External Credit Assessment Institution by the Reserve Bank of India.
With an equitable position in the Indian capital market, CareEdge Ratings provides a wide array of credit rating services that help
corporates raise capital and enable investors to make informed decisions. With an established track record of rating companies
over almost three decades, CareEdge Ratings follows a robust and transparent rating process that leverages its domain and
analytical expertise, backed by the methodologies congruent with the international best practices. CareEdge Ratings has played
a pivotal role in developing bank debt and capital market instruments, including commercial papers, corporate bonds and
debentures, and structured credit. For more information: www.careratings.com

Disclaimer:
This disclaimer pertains to the ratings issued and content published by CARE Ratings Limited (“CareEdge Ratings”). Ratings are opinions on the likelihood of timely
payment of the obligations under the rated instrument and are not recommendations to sanction, renew, disburse, or recall the concerned bank facilities or to buy,
sell, or hold any security. Any opinions expressed herein are in good faith and are subject to change without notice. The rating reflects the opinions as on the date of
the rating. A rating does not convey suitability or price for the investor. The rating agency does not conduct an audit on the rated entity or an independent verification
of any information it receives and/or relies on for the rating exercise. CareEdge Ratings has based its ratings/outlook on the information obtained from reliable and
credible sources. CareEdge Ratings does not, however, guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of any information and is not responsible for any errors
or omissions and the results obtained from the use of such information. The users of the rating should rely on their own judgment and may take professional advice
while using the rating in any way. CareEdge Ratings shall not be liable for any losses that user may incur or any financial liability whatsoever to the user of the rating.
The use or access of the rating does not create a client relationship between CareEdge Ratings and the user.

CAREEDGE RATINGS DISCLAIMS WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHER WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAWS, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, ERROR-FREE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, NON-INTERRUPTION,
SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR INTENDED USAGE.

Most entities whose bank facilities/instruments are rated by CareEdge Ratings have paid a credit rating fee, based on the amount and type of bank facilities/instruments.
CareEdge Ratings or its subsidiaries/associates may also be involved with other commercial transactions with the entity. CareEdge Ratings does not act as a fiduciary
by providing the rating. The ratings are intended for use only within the jurisdiction of India. The ratings of CareEdge Ratings do not factor in any rating-related trigger
clauses as per the terms of the facilities/instruments, which may involve acceleration of payments in case of rating downgrades. However, if any such clauses are
introduced and triggered, the ratings may see volatility and sharp downgrades. CareEdge Ratings has established policies and procedures as required under applicable
laws and regulations which are available on its website.

Privacy Policy applies. For Privacy Policy please refer to https://www.careratings.com/privacy_policy

© 2026, CARE Ratings Limited. All Rights Reserved.
This content is being published for the purpose of dissemination of information required as per applicable law and regulations and CARE Ratings Limited holds exclusive
copyright over the same. Any reproduction, retransmission, modification, derivative works or use or reference to the contents, in whole, in part or in any form, is
prohibited except with prior express written consent from CARE Ratings Limited.


                                          For detailed Rating Report and subscription information,
                                                      please visit www.careratings.com



          6                                                                                                                                     CARE Ratings Ltd.
